<h2><small><em>A shipwreck, and preparations for 
deliverance.</em></small></h2>

<p>..... <span class="smcap">Already</span> the tempest had 
continued six terrible days, and far from 
subsiding on the seventh, its fury seemed to 
increase. We had wandered so materially 
from the right track, and were so forcibly 
driven toward the south-east, that not a 
creature on board knew where we were. 
The ship’s company were exhausted by 
constant labour and watching, and the courage 
which had hitherto sustained them now 
began to fail. The masts had been shivered 
to pieces and cast into the sea; several leaks 
appeared, and the ship began to fill. The 
sailors forbore from swearing, and were 
now employed in prayers, or in making the 
absurdest vows as the condition of their 
release from danger. Each 
recommended his soul to God, but at the same 
moment thought of contriving the best 
means for preserving his life. My children, 
said I to my four boys who clung to me in 
terrible alarm, God can save us, for nothing 
is impossible to him; but if he sees fit that 
we should not be saved, we must not 
murmur at his decree, but rely that what he does 
is most for our good; that we shall be near 
him in heaven, and united through eternity. 
Death may be well supported when it does 
not separate those who love.</p>

<p>My excellent wife wiped the tears which 
were falling on her cheeks, and from this 
moment became more tranquil; she 
encouraged the youngest children, who were 
leaning on her knees; while I, who owed them 
an example of firmness, was scarcely able 
to resist the grief which assailed my heart at 
the thought of what would most likely be 
the fate of beings so tenderly beloved. We 
all fell on our knees, and supplicated the God 
of mercy to protect us; and the emotion 
and the fervour of the innocent creatures 
are a convincing proof, that even in 
childhood, devotion may be felt and understood, 
and that its effects, tranquillity and 
consolation, may be no less certainly experienced.</p>

<p>Fritz, my eldest son, implored in a loud 
voice that God would deign to save his dear 
parents and his brothers, generously 
unmindful of himself: they got up with a state of 
mind so improved, that they seemed forgetful 
of the impending danger. I myself began 
to feel my confidence in Providence increase 
as I beheld the affecting group. Heaven 
will surely have pity on them, thought I, and 
will save their parents to guard their tender 
years!</p>

<p>At this moment a cry of Land, land, was 
heard through the roaring of the waves, 
and instantly the vessel struck against a 
rock with so violent a motion as to drive 
every one from his place; a tremendous 
cracking succeeded, as if the ship was going 
to pieces; the sea rushed in, in all 
directions; we perceived that the vessel had 
grounded and could not long hold together. 
The captain in a mournful voice called out 
that all was lost, and bade the men lose not a 
moment in putting out the boats. The 
sounds fell on my heart like a blow from a 
dagger: We are lost! I exclaimed; and the 
children broke out into piercing cries. I 
then recollected myself, and endeavoured to 
be more composed; and addressing them 
again, I exhorted them to courage, by 
observing that the water had not yet reached 
us, that the ship was near land, and that 
Providence would assist the brave. Keep 
where you are, added I, while I go and 
examine what is best to be done.</p>

<p>I left my family, and went on the deck. A 
wave instantly threw me down and wetted 
me to the skin; another followed, and then 
another. I sustained myself as steadily as I 
could; and when I could look around, a 
scene of terrific and complete disaster met my 
eyes: the ship was shattered on all sides, and 
split in two on one side. The ship’s company 
crowded into the boats till they could 
contain not one man more, and the last who 
entered were now cutting the ropes to move 
off. I called to them with entreaties and 
prayers to stop and receive us also, but in 
vain; for the roaring of the sea prevented 
my being heard, and the waves, which rose 
to the height of mountains, would have 
made it impossible for a boat to return. All 
hope therefore from this source was 
extinguished, for the boats and all they 
contained were driving out of sight. My best 
consolation now was to observe that the sea 
could not enter the ship above a certain 
height. The stern, under which was the 
cabin that inclosed all that was dear to me 
on earth, had been driven to a considerable 
height between two rocks, where it 
appeared immoveably fixed; at the same time in 
the distance southward I descried through 
clouds and rain, several nooks of land, which, 
however rude and savage in appearance, 
were the object of every hope I could form 
in this distressing moment.</p>

<p>Sunk and desolate from the loss of every 
chance for human aid, it was yet my duty 
to make every effort to appear serene before 
my family. Courage, dear ones, cried I, on 
entering their cabin, all is not yet lost. I 
will not conceal from you that the ship is 
aground: but we are at least in greater 
safety than we should be if she were beating 
upon the rocks: our cabin is above water; 
and should the sea be more calm tomorrow, 
we may yet find means to reach the land in 
safety.</p>

<p>What I had just said, appeased the fears of 
all; for they had the habit of confiding in 
my assurances. They now therefore began to 
feel the advantage of the ship’s remaining 
still; for its motion had cruelly annoyed them 
by jostling them one against another, and 
sometimes against the vessel. My wife, 
however, more accustomed than the children 
to read my inmost thoughts, perceived the 
anxiety which devoured me. I made her a 
sign which conveyed an idea of the 
hopelessness of our situation, and I had the 
consolation to see that she was resolved to support 
the trial with resignation. Let us take 
some nourishment, said she: our courage will 
strengthen with our bodies; we shall perhaps 
need this comfort to support a long and 
melancholy night.</p>

<p>Soon after the evening set in: the tempest 
and the waves continued their fury; the 
planks and beams of the vessel separated in 
many parts with a horrible crash. It seemed 
impossible for the boats, or any one of the 
persons they contained, to escape the raging 
of the storm.</p>

<p>Papa, cried my youngest boy, six years 
old, will not God assist us soon?</p>

<p>Hold your tongue, replied his eldest 
brother. Do you not know that it is our duty 
not to prescribe to God, but to wait for his 
assistance with patience and humility?</p>

<p>Well spoken, my boy, said I; but you 
should not have reproved your brother so 
sharply. The eldest instantly ran and kissed 
the innocent little creature.</p>

<p>In the mean while, their mother had 
prepared our meal, and the four boys partook 
of it with an appetite to which their parents 
were strangers. They afterwards went to bed, 
and in a short time, in spite of the tempest, 
they were snoring soundly. Fritz, the 
eldest, sat up with us. I have been examining, 
said he after a long silence, how it may be 
possible to save ourselves. If we had only 
some instruments for swimming, some 
bladders or cork jackets for my mother and my 
brothers, you and I, father, would soon 
contrive to swim to land.</p>

<p>That is a good thought, said I: we will 
see if we can bring it to bear this very night, 
for fear of the worst.</p>

<p>Fritz and I immediately looked about for 
some small empty tubs or casks, or tin canisters, 
heavy enough to keep one of our 
children in a state of equilibrium on the surface 
of the water; these we fastened two and two 
together with handkerchiefs or towels, 
leaving about a foot distance between them; 
attaching this sort of swimming-jacket under 
the arms of each child; my wife, at the same 
time, preparing one for herself. We all 
provided ourselves with knives, some string, 
some turfs, and other necessaries which 
could be put into the pocket, proceeding 
upon the hope, that if the ship should go to 
pieces in the night, we should either be able 
to swim to land or be driven thither by the 
waves.</p>

<p>Fritz, who had been up the whole of the 
preceding night, and was fatigued with his 
new and laborious occupation, now lay down 
near his brothers, and was soon asleep; but 
their mother and I, too full of anxiety to 
close our eyes, kept watch, listening to every 
sound that seemed to threaten a further 
change in our situation. We passed this 
terrible night in prayer, in agonizing 
apprehensions, and in forming various resolutions 
as to what we should next attempt. We 
hailed with joy the first gleam of light which 
shot through a small opening of the window. 
The raging of the winds had begun to 
abate, the sky was become serene, and 
with hope swelling in my bosom, I beheld 
the sun already tinging the horizon: thus 
revived, I hastily summoned my wife and 
the boys to the deck, that they might 
partake of the scene. The children asked with 
much surprise why we were there alone 
and what had become of the ship’s company. 
I answered that they were gone away in the 
boats. Next followed, Why did they not 
take us with them? How are we to do 
without their assistance? How shall we 
know where we are?</p>

<p>Dearest children, said I, a Being more 
powerful than man has helped us to the 
present moment, and will, no doubt, continue 
to help us, if we do not abandon ourselves to 
a fruitless complaining and despair. Observe 
our companions, in whom we had so much 
confidence, have deserted us without mercy, 
and that Divine Providence has given us 
protection! But, my dear ones, we must now 
trust to our own exertions. Let us be 
willing to help ourselves, and we shall obtain 
support from Heaven. Let us never forget 
this useful maxim, and let each labour 
according to his strength. Now let us see 
what in our situation it is best to set about 
next.</p>

<p>Fritz advised that we should all throw 
ourselves into the sea, while it was calm, 
and swim to land. Ah! that may be well 
enough for you, said Ernest, for you can 
swim; but we others should soon be drowned. 
Would it not be better to make a float of 
rafts, and get to land all together upon it?</p>

<p>Vastly well, answered I, if we had the 
means for contriving such a float, and if, 
after all, it were not a dangerous sort of 
conveyance. Come along, my boys, let each 
go a different way about the ship, and see 
what he can do to be useful, and what he 
can find to enable us to get away.</p>

<p>They now all sprang from me with eager 
looks to do what I had desired. I, on my 
part, lost no time in examining what we 
had to depend upon in regard to provisions 
and fresh water, the principles of life; my 
wife and the youngest boy visited all the 
animals, whom they found in a pitiable 
condition, and nearly perishing with hunger and 
thirst. Fritz repaired to the ammunition 
chamber, Ernest to the carpenter’s cabin, 
and Jack to the apartment of the captain; 
but scarcely had he opened the door, when 
two large dogs sprung joyfully upon him, 
and saluted him with such rude affection, 
that, finding himself nearly thrown down, 
he roared for assistance as if they had been 
killing him. Hunger, however, had rendered 
the animals so gentle, that they licked his 
hands and face, uttering all the time a low 
sort of groan, and continued their caresses 
till he was almost suffocated. Poor Jack 
exerted all his strength in aiming blows at 
them to drive them away: at last he began 
to sympathize in their joyful movements, 
and put himself upon another footing; got 
upon his legs; and gently taking the largest 
dog by the ears, he sprang upon his back, 
and with great gravity presented himself 
thus mounted before me as I came out of 
the ship’s hold. I could not refrain from 
laughing, and I praised his courage: but I 
added a little exhortation to be cautious, 
and not go too far with animals of this 
species, who in a state of hunger might be 
dangerous.</p>

<p>By and by my little company were again 
assembled round me, and each boasted of 
what he had to contribute. Fritz had two 
fowling pieces, some powder and some small 
shot contained in horn flasks, and balls in 
bags.</p>

<p>Ernest produced his hat filled with nails, 
and held in his hands a hatchet and a 
hammer; in addition, a pair of pincers, a pair of 
large scissars, and an auger, peeped out at 
his pocket-hole.</p>

<p>Even the little Francis carried under his 
arm a box of no very small size, from which 
he eagerly produced what he called some 
little sharp-pointed hooks. His brothers smiled 
scornfully. Vastly well, gentlemen, said I; 
but let me tell you that the youngest has 
brought the most valuable prize: and this is 
often the case in the world; the person who 
least courts the smiles of Fortune, and in the 
innocence of his heart is scarcely conscious 
of her existence, is often he to whom she 
most readily presents herself. These little 
sharp-pointed hooks, as Francis calls them, 
are fishing-hooks, and will probably be of 
more use in preserving our lives than all we 
may find besides in the ship. In justice, 
however, I must confess that what Fritz and 
Ernest have contributed, will also afford us 
essential service.</p>

<p>I for my part, said my wife, have brought 
nothing; but I have some tidings to 
communicate which I hope will secure my 
welcome: what I have to tell, is, that I have 
found on board the ship, a cow and an ass, 
two goats, six sheep, and a sow big with 
young, all of whom I have just supplied with 
food and water, and that I reckon on being 
able to preserve their lives.</p>

<p>All this is admirable, said I to my little 
labourers, and there is only master Jack, 
who, instead of thinking of something that 
might be useful, has done us the favour to 
present us two personages who no doubt 
will be principally distinguished by being 
willing to eat more than we shall have to 
give them.</p>

<p>Ah! replied Jack; but I know that if we 
can once get to land, you will see that they 
will assist us in hunting and shooting.</p>

<p>True enough, said I; but be so good as to 
tell us how we are to get to land, and 
whether you have contrived the means.</p>

<p>I am sure it cannot be very difficult, said 
Jack with an arch motion of his head. Look 
here at these large tubs. Why cannot each of 
us get into one of them, and float to the 
land? I remember I succeeded very well in 
this manner on the water when I was visiting 
my godfather at S***.</p>

<p>Every hint is good for something, cried I, 
and I begin to think that what Jack has 
suggested is worth a trial; the counsels of 
even a child may be worth consideration, and 
should be accepted with gratitude. Quick 
then. Jack, give me the saw, the auger, and 
some nails; we will see what is to be done. 
I recollected having seen some empty casks 
in the ship’s hold; we went down, and 
found them floating with the water which 
had got into the vessel; it cost us but little 
trouble to hoist them up and place them on 
the lower deck, which was at this time 
scarcely above water. We saw with delight 
that they were all made of excellent wood, 
well guarded by iron hoops, and in every 
respect in sound condition; they were 
exactly suited for my object; and with the 
assistance of my sons I instantly began to saw them 
in two. In a certain time I had produced eight 
tubs of equal size and of the proper height. 
We now allowed ourselves some 
refreshment from the wine and biscuit with which 
some of these very casks were still filled.</p>

<p>I contemplated with perfect satisfaction my 
eight little tubs ranged in a line. I was 
surprised to see that my wife was still 
dejected; she sighed deeply as she looked at 
them: Never, never, cried she, can I venture 
to get into one of these.</p>

<p>Do not decide so hastily, my dear, said I: 
my plan is not yet complete, and you will 
see presently that it is more worthy of our 
confidence than this shattered vessel, which 
cannot move from its place.</p>

<p>I then sought for a long plank capable of 
being a little curved, and contrived to fasten 
my eight tubs to it, leaving a space at 
each end of the plank, reaching beyond the 
tubs, and presenting an outline like the 
keel of a vessel; we next nailed all the tubs 
to the plank, and then the tubs to each other 
as they stood side by side, to make them the 
firmer, and afterwards two other planks of 
the same length as the first, on each side of 
the tubs. When all this was finished, we 
found we had produced a kind of narrow 
boat divided into eight compartments, which 
I had no doubt would be able to perform a 
short course in calm water.</p>

<p>But, unfortunately, our marvellous 
machine proved so heavy, that with the strength 
of all united, we were not able to move it 
an inch from its place. I bade Fritz fetch 
me a crow, who soon returned with it: in 
the meanwhile I sawed a thick round pole 
into several pieces, to make some rollers. I 
now with the crow easily raised the foremost 
part of my machine, while Fritz placed one 
of the rollers under it.</p>

<p>How astonishing, said Ernest, that this 
engine, which is smaller than any of us, can 
do more than our united strength was able to 
effect! I wish I could know how it is 
constructed.</p>

<p>I explained to him as well as I could, the 
power of Archimedes’s lever, with which he 
said he could move the world if you would 
give him a point from which his mechanism 
might act, and promised to explain the nature 
of the operation of the crow when we should 
be safe on land.</p>

<p>One of the points of my system of 
education was to awaken the curiosity of my 
sons by interesting observations, to leave 
time for the activity of their imagination, 
and then to correct any error they might fall 
into. I contented myself now, however, 
with this general remark, That God 
sufficiently compensated the natural weakness of 
man by the gifts of reason, invention, and the 
adroitness of the hands; and that human 
meditation and reflection had composed a science 
called mechanics, the object of which was, to 
teach us how to make our own natural 
strength act to an incredible distance and 
with extraordinary force, by the intervention 
of instruments.</p>

<p>Jack here remarked that the action of 
the crow was very slow.</p>

<p>Better slow than never, Jack, replied I. 
Experience has ever taught, and mechanical 
observations have established as a principle, 
that what is gained in speed is lost in 
strength; the purpose of the crow is not to 
enable us to raise any thing rapidly, but to 
raise what is exceedingly heavy; and the 
heavier the thing we would move, the slower 
is the mechanical operation. But are you 
aware, what we have at our command to 
compensate this slowness?</p>

<p>Yes, it is turning the handle quicker.</p>

<p>Your guess is wrong; that would be no 
compensation: the true remedy, my boy, is to 
call in the assistance of patience and reason; 
with the aid of these two fairies I am in 
hopes to set my machine afloat. As I said this, 
I tied a long cord to its stern, and the other 
end of it to one of the timbers of the ship 
which appeared to be still firm, so that the 
cord being left loose would serve to guide 
and restrain it when launched. We now put a 
second and a third roller under, and applying 
the crow, to our great joy our construction 
descended into the water with such a 
velocity, that if the rope had not been well 
fastened it would have gone far out to sea. 
But now a new misfortune presented itself: 
the machine leaned so much on one side that 
my boys all exclaimed they could not venture 
to get into it. I was for some moments in the 
most painful perplexity; but it suddenly 
occurred to me that ballast only was wanting 
to set it straight. I threw every thing I 
could find that was weighty and of small 
size into the tubs: by degrees the machine 
recovered, and was at length quite straight 
and firm in the water, and seeming to invite 
us to take refuge in its protection. All 
now would have thrown themselves at once 
into it, and the boys began to push each 
other, and dispute which should get in first.</p>

<p>I however drew them back, plainly 
perceiving that at best the voyage would be 
hazardous, and that the least motion of even one 
of these boisterous children might upset it and 
cause us to be all drowned. In seeking for a 
remedy for this inconvenience, I recollected 
that savage nations make use of a paddle for 
preventing their canoes from upsetting. 
With this thought I once more set to work 
to make one of these, that the completion 
of a contrivance which promised safety to so 
many cherished beings might not be wanting.</p>

<p>I took two of the poles of equal length, 
upon which the sails of the vessel had been 
stretched, and fixed one of them at the head 
and the other at the stern of my floating 
machine, in such a manner as to enable us to turn 
them at pleasure to right or left, as should 
best answer the purpose of guiding our 
machine, and putting it out to sea. I stuck 
the end of each pole, or paddle, into the 
bung-hole of an empty brandy keg, which 
served to keep the paddles steady, and to 
prevent any interruption in the management 
of the machine.</p>

<p>There remained nothing more for me to 
do, but to find out in what way I could clear 
out from the incumbrance of the wreck and 
get completely to sea. I got into the first 
tub, and steered the head of the machine, so 
as to make it enter the cleft in the ship’s 
side where it could remain quiet. I then 
remounted the vessel, and sometimes with 
the saw and sometimes with the hatchet, I 
cleared away to right and left every thing 
that could obstruct our passage: and that 
being effected, we next secured some oars 
for our voyage the next morning.</p>

<p>We had spent the day in laborious 
exertions; it was already late; and as it 
would not have been possible to reach the 
land that evening, we were obliged, though 
much against our inclination, to pass a 
second night in the wrecked vessel, which at 
every instant threatened to fall to pieces. 
We now refreshed ourselves by a regular 
meal, for during the day’s work, we had 
scarcely allowed ourselves to take a bit of 
bread or a glass of wine. Being in a more 
tranquil and unapprehensive state of mind 
than the preceding day, we all abandoned 
ourselves to sleep; not however till I had 
used the precaution of tying the swimming 
apparatus round my three youngest boys 
and my wife, as a means of safety, if the 
storm should again come on and should put 
the finishing stroke to the destruction of the 
vessel. I also advised my wife to dress 
herself in the clothes of one of the sailors, which 
was so much more convenient for swimming, 
or any other exertions she might be 
compelled to engage in. She consented, but 
not without reluctance, and left us, to look 
for one that might best suit her size. In 
a quarter of an hour she returned, dressed 
in the clothes of a young man who had 
served as volunteer on board the ship, and 
which she had found in his chest. She 
approached us with a natural timidity: but I 
soon found means to reconcile her to the 
change, by representing the many advantages 
it gave her. At length she joined in the 
merriment her dress occasioned, and one and 
all crept into our separate hammocks, where 
a delicious repose prepared us for the 
renewal of our labours.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap02" id="chap02" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER II.<br/>
<small><em>A landing, and consequent occupations.</em></small></h2>

<p><span class="smcap">By</span> break of day we were all awake and 
alert, for hope as well as grief, is unfriendly 
to lengthened slumbers. When we had 
finished our morning prayer, I said, We now, 
my best beloved, with the assistance of heaven, 
must enter upon the work of our 
deliverance. The first thing to be done, is to give to 
each poor animal on board, before we leave 
them, a hearty meal; we will then put food 
enough before them for several days; we 
cannot take them with us; but we will hope 
it may be possible, if our voyage succeeds, to 
return and fetch them. Are you now all 
ready? Bring together whatever we mean 
to take, whatever is absolutely necessary for 
our wants. It is my wish that our first cargo 
should consist of a barrel of gunpowder, 
three fowling-pieces, and three carbines, 
with as much small shot and lead and as 
many bullets as our boat will bear; two 
pair of pocket pistols and one of large ones, 
not forgetting a mould to cast balls in: 
each of the boys and their mother also should 
have a bag to carry game in; you will find 
plenty of these in the cabins of the officers. 
We added a chest containing cakes of 
portable soup, another full of hard biscuits, an 
iron pot, a fishing-rod, a chest of nails and 
another of different utensils, such as 
hammers, saws, pincers, hatchets, augers, <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr> 
and lastly some sail-cloth to make a tent. 
In short, the boys brought so many things, 
that we were obliged to reject some of them, 
though I had already exchanged the 
worthless ballast for articles of use for our 
subsistence.</p>

<p>When all was ready, we stepped bravely 
each into a tub. At the moment of our 
departure we heard all the cocks and hens 
begin to crow, as if they were conscious that 
we had deserted them, yet willing to bid us 
a sorrowful adieu. This suggested to me the 
idea of taking the geese, ducks, fowls, and 
pigeons with us; observing to my wife, that 
if we could not find means to feed them, at 
least they would feed us.</p>

<p>We accordingly executed this plan. We 
put ten hens and an old and a young cock 
into one of the tubs, and covered it with 
planks; we set the rest of the poultry at 
liberty, in the hope that instinct would direct 
them towards the land, the geese and the 
ducks by water, and the pigeons by the air.</p>

<p>We were waiting for my wife, who had 
the care of this last part of our embarkation, 
when she joined us loaded with a large 
bag, which she threw into the tub which 
already contained her youngest son. I 
imagined that she intended it for him to sit 
upon, and also to confine him so as to prevent 
his being tossed from side to side. I therefore 
asked no questions concerning it. The 
order of our departure was as follows:</p>

<p>In the first tub at the boat’s head, my wife, 
the most tender and exemplary of her sex, 
placed herself.</p>

<p>In the second, our little Francis, a lovely 
boy six years old, full of the happiest 
dispositions, but whose character was not yet 
pronounced.</p>

<p>In the third, Fritz, our eldest boy, between 
fourteen and fifteen years of age, a handsome 
curl-pated youth full of intelligence and 
vivacity.</p>

<p>In the fourth was the barrel of 
gunpowder, with the cocks and hens and the 
sail-cloth.</p>

<p>In the fifth, the provisions for the support 
of life.</p>

<p>In the sixth, my son Jack, a light-hearted, 
enterprising, audacious, generous lad, about 
ten years old.</p>

<p>In the seventh, my son Ernest, a boy of 
twelve years old, of a rational reflecting 
temper, well informed, but somewhat disposed 
to indolence and the pleasures of the senses.</p>

<p>In the eighth, a father, to whose paternal 
care the task of guiding the machine for the 
safety of his beloved family was intrusted. 
Each of us had useful implements within 
reach; the hand of each held an oar, and 
near each was a swimming apparatus in 
readiness for what might happen. The tide 
was already at half its height when we left 
the ship, and I had counted on this 
circumstance as favourable to our want of strength. 
We held the two paddles longways, and 
thus we passed without accident through the 
cleft of the vessel into the sea. The boys 
devoured with their eyes the blue land they 
saw at a distance (for to us it appeared to be 
of this colour). We rowed with all our 
strength, but long in vain, to reach it: the 
boat only turned round and round: at length, 
however, I had the good fortune to steer in 
such a way that she proceeded in a straight 
line. The two dogs we had left on board, 
perceiving that we had abandoned them, 
plunged immediately into the sea and swam 
to the boat; they were too large for us to 
think of giving them admittance, and I 
dreaded lest they should jump in and upset 
us. Turk was an English dog, and Ponto 
of the Danish breed. I was in great 
uneasiness on their account, for I feared it would 
not be possible for them to swim so far. 
The dogs however managed the affair with 
perfect intelligence. When they found 
themselves fatigued, they rested their fore paws 
on one of the paddles, which were now 
turned crossways, and the rest of their bodies 
followed with very little effort.</p>

<p>Jack was disposed to refuse them this 
accommodation: but he soon yielded to my 
argument, that it was cruel and unwise to 
neglect creatures thrown on our protection, and 
who indeed might hereafter protect us in 
their turn by guarding us from harm, and 
assisting in our pursuit of animals for food. 
Besides, added I, animals are created beings, 
and God has given the dog to man to be his 
friend and faithful companion.</p>

<p>Our voyage proceeded securely, though 
slowly; but the nearer we approached the 
land, the more gloomy and unpromising we 
thought its aspect appeared. The coast was 
occupied by barren rocks, which seemed to 
offer nothing but hunger and distress. The 
sea was calm; the waves, gently agitated, 
washed the shore, and the sky was serene; 
in every direction we perceived casks, bales, 
chests, and other vestiges of shipwrecks, 
floating round us. In the hope of obtaining 
some good provisions, I determined on 
endeavouring to secure two of the casks. I 
bade Fritz have a rope, a hammer, and some 
nails ready, and to try to seize them as we 
passed. He succeeded in laying hold of two 
of them, and in such a way that we found 
it easy to draw them after us to the shore. 
Now that we were close on land, its hideous 
aspect was considerably softened, the rocks 
no longer appeared one undivided chain; 
Fritz with his hawk’s eyes already descried 
some trees, and exclaimed that they were 
palm trees. Ernest expressed his joy that he 
should now get much larger and better cocoa 
nuts than those of Europe. I for my part was 
venting audibly my regret, that I had not 
thought of bringing with us a telescope that 
I knew was in the captain’s cabin, when 
Jack drew a small spy-glass from his pocket, 
and, with a look of triumph that he was able 
to compensate this neglect, instantly presented 
it to me.</p>

<p>So, so, then, said I, you meant to keep 
this spy-glass for yourself, and to let no one 
else have the benefit of it! This was not fair; 
pleasures and pain, all should be in common 
in such a situation as ours. Jack assured me 
that he had forgot to give it to me sooner, 
and that he had taken it for the benefit of 
all. In reality, the glass was of great 
importance; for with its aid I was able to make 
the necessary observations, and consequently 
became more sure of the route I ought to 
take. I remarked that the shore before us 
had a desert and savage aspect, but that 
towards the left, the scene was much more 
agreeable: but when I attempted to steer in 
that direction, a current carried me irresistibly 
towards the coast that was rocky and barren. 
By and by we perceived a little opening 
between the rocks, near the mouth of a 
creek, towards which all our geese and ducks 
betook themselves; and I, relying on their 
sagacity, followed in the same course. This 
opening formed a little bay, the water of 
which was tranquil, and neither too deep 
nor too shallow to receive our boat. I 
entered it, and cautiously put on shore on a 
spot where the coast was about the same 
height above the water as our tubs, and where 
at the same time there was a quantity sufficient 
to keep us afloat. The shore extended 
inland in a shelving declivity in the form of 
an isosceles triangle, the upper angle of 
which terminated among the rocks, while 
the margin of the sea formed the basis.</p>

<p>All that had life in the boat jumped eagerly 
on land. Even little Francis, who had been 
wedged in his tub like a potted herring, 
now got up and sprang forward; but, with 
all his efforts, he could not succeed without 
his mother’s help. The dogs, who had 
swam on shore, received us as if they were 
appointed to do the honours of the place, 
jumping round us with every demonstration 
of joy: the geese kept up a loud continual 
cackling, to which the ducks, with their 
broad yellow beaks, contributed a perpetual 
thorough bass: the cocks and hens, which 
we had already set at liberty, clucked; the 
boys chattering all at once; produced all 
together an overpowering confusion of sounds: 
to this was added the disagreeable scream 
of some penguins and flamingos, which we 
now perceived, some flying over our heads, 
others sitting on the points of the rocks at 
the entrance of the bay. By and by the 
notes of the latter had the ascendant, from 
the superiority of their numbers; and their 
society became the more unpleasant, from a 
comparison we could not avoid making, 
between the sounds they uttered, with the 
harmony of the feathered musicians of our 
own country. I had however one advantage 
in perspective;—it was the reflection that, 
should we hereafter be short of food, these 
very birds might serve for our subsistence.</p>

<p>The first thing we did on finding ourselves 
safe on <i>terra firma</i>, was to fall on our knees, 
and return thanks to the Supreme Being 
who had preserved our lives, and to 
recommend ourselves with entire resignation to the 
care of his paternal kindness.</p>

<p>We next employed our whole attention in 
unloading the boat. Oh, how rich we 
thought ourselves in the little we had been 
able to rescue from the merciless abyss of 
waters! We looked every where for a 
convenient place to build a tent under the shade 
of the rocks; and having all consulted and 
agreed upon a place, we set to work. We 
drove one of our poles firmly into a fissure 
of the rock; this formed the ridge of our 
tent, and rested upon another pole, which 
was driven perpendicularly into the ground. 
A frame for a dwelling was thus made secure. 
We next threw some sail-cloth over the 
ridge; and, stretching it to a convenient 
distance on each side, fastened its extremities to 
the ground with stakes. By way of 
precaution, we left the chests of provisions and other 
heavy matters on the shore, and fixed some 
tenter-hooks near the edge of the sail-cloth 
in front, that we might be able to inclose the 
entrance during night. I next desired my 
sons to look about and collect all the grass 
and moss they could find, and spread it to 
dry in the sun, as it would then serve us for 
beds. During this occupation, in which even 
the little Francis could take a share, I erected 
at a small distance from the tent, and near a 
river from which I hoped to be supplied with 
fresh water, a kind of little kitchen. A 
few flat stones that I found in the bed of 
the river served for a fire-place. I got a 
quantity of dry branches: with the largest 
I made a small inclosure round it; and with 
the little twigs, added to some of our turf, 
I made a brisk cheering fire. We put some 
of the soup cakes, with water, into our iron 
pot, and placed it over the fire; and my 
wife, with her little Francis for a scullion, 
took charge of preparing the dinner. 
Francis, from their colour, had mistaken the 
soup cakes for glue. Why, papa, said he, 
what are you going to use glue for? I am 
going to make some soup of it, said his 
mother laughing. That is droll enough, 
answered he; for how shall we get any meat 
to put into it, here, where there is nothing 
like a butcher’s shop?</p>

<p>Little blockhead, said I, what you have 
been thinking was glue, is in reality 
excellent meat, reduced as you see to a jelly, by 
the process of cookery, and which being 
dried, is in no danger of becoming stale. In 
this state it will bear long voyages by sea, 
where it would be difficult to take sufficient 
animals for the use of the ship’s company, 
who would otherwise be kept constantly on 
a less wholesome soup made from salted 
meat; but ours, I assure you, Francis, will 
be excellent. The poor child was hungry 
enough to believe he should partake of it 
with joy.</p>

<p>In the mean while Fritz had been reloading 
the guns, with one of which he had 
wandered along the side of the river. He had 
proposed to Ernest to accompany him; but 
Ernest replied that he did not like a rough 
and stony walk, and that he should go alone 
to the sea-shore. Jack took the road 
towards a chain of rocks which jutted out 
into the sea, with the intention of gathering 
some of the muscles which grew upon them. 
My own occupation was now an endeavour 
to draw the two floating casks on shore, but 
in which I could not succeed; for our place 
of landing, though convenient enough for 
our machine, was too steep for the casks. 
While I was looking about to find a more 
favourable spot, I heard loud cries 
proceeding from a short distance, and recognised 
the voice of my son Jack. I snatched my 
hatchet, and ran in an agony of apprehension 
to his assistance. I soon perceived him up 
to his knees in water in a shallow, and that a 
large sea lobster had fastened his claws in 
his leg. The poor boy screamed pitiably, 
and made useless efforts to disengage 
himself. I jumped instantly into the water; and 
the enemy was no sooner sensible of my 
approach, than he let go his hold, and would 
have scampered out to sea, but that I 
indulged the fancy of a little malice against 
him for the alarm he had caused us. I turned 
quickly upon him, and took him up by the 
body and carried him off, followed by Jack, 
who shouted our triumph all the way. He 
begged me at last to let him hold the animal 
in his own hand, that he might himself present 
so fine a booty to his mother. 
Accordingly, having observed how I held it to 
avoid the gripe, he laid his own hand upon 
it in exactly the same manner; but scarcely 
had he grasped it, than he received a violent 
blow on the face from the lobster’s tail, which 
made him lose his hold, and the animal fell 
to the ground. Jack again began to bawl out, 
while I could not refrain from laughing 
heartily. In his rage he took up a stone, 
and killed the lobster with a single blow. I 
was a little vexed at this conclusion to the 
scene. This is what we call killing an enemy 
when he is unable to defend himself, Jack, 
said I;—it is wrong to revenge an injury 
while we are in a state of anger: the lobster, 
it is true, had given you a bite; but then you 
on your part, would have eaten the lobster. 
So I think the game was equal. Another 
time I advise you to be both more prudent 
and more merciful. But pray, papa, let me 
carry it to my mother, said Jack, fearless now 
of further warfare; and accordingly he 
carried it to the kitchen, triumphantly 
exclaiming, Mamma, mamma, a sea-lobster!—Ernest, 
a sea-lobster! Where is Fritz? 
Where is Fritz? Take care, Francis, he 
will bite you. In a moment all were round 
him to examine the wonderful creature, and 
all proclaimed their astonishment at his 
enormous size; while they observed that its 
form was precisely that of the common 
lobster so much in use in Europe.</p>

<p>Yes, yes, said Jack, holding up one of his 
claws; you may well wonder at his size: 
this was the frightful claw which seized my 
leg, and I believe that if I had not had on 
my thick sea pantaloons, he would have bit 
it through and through; but I have taught 
him what it is to attack me: I have paid him 
well.</p>

<p>Oh, ho! Mr. Boaster, cried I, you give a 
pretty account of the matter. Now mine 
would be, that if I had not been near, the 
lobster would have shown you another sort of 
game; for the slap he gave you in the face 
compelled you, I think, to let go your hold. 
And it is well it should be thus; for he 
fought with the arms with which nature had 
supplied him, but you must have recourse 
to a great stone for your defence. Believe 
me, Jack, you have no great reason to boast 
of the adventure.</p>

<p>Ernest, ever eager about his meals, now 
bawled out that the lobster had better be put 
into the soup, which would give it an excellent 
flavour; but this his mother opposed, 
observing, that we must be more economical of our 
provisions than that, for the lobster of itself 
would furnish a dinner for the whole family. I 
now left them, and walked again to the scene 
of this adventure, and examined the shallow. 
I then made another attempt upon my two 
casks, and at length succeeded in getting 
them into the shallow, and in fixing them 
there securely on their bottoms.</p>

<p>On my return, I complimented Jack on 
his being the first to have procured us an 
animal that might serve for our subsistence, 
and I promised him for his own share, the 
famous claw which had already furnished us 
with so lively a discussion.</p>

<p>Ah! but <i>I</i> have seen something too that 
is good to eat, said Ernest; and I should 
have got it if it had not been in the water, so 
that I must have wetted my feet——;</p>

<p>Oh, that is a famous story, said Jack; I 
can tell you what he saw,—some nasty 
muscles: why, I would not eat one of them 
for the world.—Think of my lobster!</p>

<p>That is not true, Jack; for it was oysters, 
and not muscles, that I saw: I am sure of 
it, for they stuck against the foot of the 
rock, and I know they must be oysters.</p>

<p>Fortunate enough, my dainty gentleman, 
cried I, addressing myself to Ernest; and 
since you are so well acquainted with the 
place where these shell-fish can be found, 
you will be so obliging as to dismiss your 
fears about wetting your feet, and to return 
and procure us some. In such a situation as 
ours, every member of the family must be 
actively employed for the common good, 
and not be afraid of wetting his feet. Take 
example by Fritz and your father: they bear 
a greater evil, the scorching heat of the sun, 
without complaining.</p>

<p>I will do my best with all my heart, 
answered Ernest; and at the same time I 
will bring home some salt, of which I have 
seen immense quantities in the holes of the 
rocks, where I suppose it is dried by the sun. 
I tasted some of it, and it was excellent. 
Papa, is it not left there by the sea?</p>

<p>No doubt it is, Mr. Reasoner, for where else 
do you think it could come from? You would 
have done more wisely if you had brought 
us a bag of it, instead of spending your time 
in such profound reflections upon an 
operation so simple and obvious; and if you do 
not wish to dine upon a soup without flavour, 
you had better run and fetch us a little 
immediately.</p>

<p>He set off, and soon returned: what he 
brought had the appearance of sea salt, but 
was so mixed with earth and sand, that I was 
on the point of throwing it away. My wife 
however prevented me; and by dissolving 
and afterwards filtering some of it through a 
piece of muslin, we found it admirably fit for 
use.</p>

<p>Why could we not have used some 
seawater, said Jack, instead of having all this 
trouble?</p>

<p>Sea water, answered I, is even more bitter 
than it is salt; and it has besides a 
disagreeable sickly taste. While I was speaking, 
my wife tasted the soup with a little stick 
with which she had been stirring it, and 
pronounced that it was all the better for the 
salt, and now quite ready. But, said she, 
Fritz is not come in. And then, how shall we 
manage to eat our soup without spoons, or 
dishes? Why did we not remember to bring 
some from the ship?</p>

<p>Why did we not think of them?—Because, 
my dear, one cannot think of every thing at 
once. We shall be lucky if we do not 
discover that we have forgotten even more 
important things.</p>

<p>But indeed, said she, this is a matter 
which cannot easily be set to rights. How 
will it be possible for each of us to raise this 
large boiling pot to his lips?</p>

<p>A moment’s further reflection convinced 
me my wife was right. We all cast our eyes 
upon the pot with a sort of silent and stupid 
perplexity, and we looked a little like the 
fox in the fable, when the stork desires him 
to help himself from a vessel with a long 
neck. Silence was at length broken, by all 
bursting into a hearty laugh at our want of 
every kind of utensil, and at the thought of 
our own folly, in not recollecting that spoons 
and forks were things of absolute necessity.</p>

<p>Ernest observed, that if we could but get 
some cocoa-nuts, we might divide and empty 
them, and use the pieces of the shells for 
spoons.</p>

<p>Yes, yes, that is true enough, replied I; 
<i>if we could but get,</i>—but we have them 
not; our ifs will do but little good; and if 
wishing were to any purpose, I had as lief 
wish at once for a dozen silver spoons; but 
alas! of what use is wishing?</p>

<p>But at least, said the boy, we can use 
some oyster-shells for spoons.</p>

<p>Why, this is well, Ernest, said I, and is 
what I call a useful thought. Run then 
quickly, and get us some of them. But, 
gentlemen, I must give you notice, that no 
one of you must give himself airs because his 
spoon is without a handle, or if he should 
chance to grease his fingers in the soup.</p>

<p>Jack ran the first, and was up to his knees 
in the water before Ernest could reach the 
place. Jack tore off the fish with eagerness, 
and threw them to the slothful Ernest, who 
put them into his pocket handkerchief, having 
first secured in his pocket, one shell he had 
met with of a large size. The boys came 
back together with their booty.</p>

<p>Fritz not having yet returned, his mother 
was beginning to be uneasy, when we heard 
him shouting to us from a small distance, 
to which we answered by similar sounds. 
In a few minutes he was among us; his 
two hands behind him, and with a sort of 
would-be melancholy air, which none of us 
could well understand. What have you 
brought? asked his brothers; let us see 
your booty, and you shall see ours. Ah! 
said he, I have unfortunately nothing, for I 
have seen nothing. What! nothing at all? 
said I. Nothing at all, said he. But now, 
on fixing my eye upon him, I perceived a 
smile of proud success through his assumed 
dissatisfaction. At the same instant Jack, 
having stolen behind him, exclaimed: A 
sucking pig! A sucking pig! Fritz, finding his 
trick discovered, now proudly displayed his 
prize, which I immediately perceived, from 
the description I had read in different books 
of travels, was an agouti, an animal common 
in that country, and not a sucking pig, as the 
boys had supposed. The agouti, says <abbr>M.</abbr> 
de Courtills in his Voyage to St. Domingo, is 
of the size of a hare, and runs with the 
same swiftness; but its form is more like 
the pig, and he makes the same grunting 
noise. He is not a voracious animal, but 
is nice in the choice of his food. When his 
appetite is satiated, he buries what remains, 
and keeps it for another time. He is 
naturally of a gentle temper; but if provoked, 
his hair becomes erect, he bites, and strikes 
the ground with his hind feet like the rabbit, 
which he also resembles in digging himself 
a burrow under ground: but this burrow has 
but one entrance; he conceals himself in it 
during the hottest part of the day, taking care 
to provide himself with a store of patates and 
bananas. He is usually taken by coursing, 
and sometimes by dogs, or with nets. When 
it is found difficult to seize him, the 
sportsman has only to whistle. As soon as the 
agouti hears the sound, he is instantly still, 
remains resting on his hind feet, and suffers 
himself to be taken. His flesh is white, like 
that of the rabbit; but it is dry, has no fat, 
and never entirely loses a certain wild 
flavour, which is extremely disagreeable to 
Europeans. He is held in great esteem by the 
natives, particularly when the animal has 
been feeding near the sea on plants 
impregnated with salt. They are therefore caught 
in great numbers, and for this reason the 
species is much diminished.—Where did 
you find him? How did you get at him? 
Did he make you run a great way? asked 
all at once the young brothers. Tell me, tell 
us all.... <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr> I, for my part, assumed a 
somewhat serious tone. I should have 
preferred, said I, that you had in reality brought 
us nothing, rather than to have heard you 
assert a falsehood. Never allow yourself, 
even in jest, my dear boy, to assert what you 
know to be an untruth. By such trifles as 
these, a habit of lying, the most disgusting 
and frightful of vices, may be induced. Now 
then that I have given you this caution, let us 
look at the animal. Where did you find it?</p>

<p>Fritz related, that he had passed over to 
the other side of the river. Ah! continued 
he, it is quite another thing from this place; 
the shore is low, and you can have no notion 
of the quantity of casks, chests, and planks, 
and different sorts of things washed there by 
the sea. Ought we not to go and try to 
obtain some of these treasures? We ought 
also, said I, to make our little voyage 
to the vessel, and fetch away our animals; 
at least you will all agree that of the cow we 
are pretty much in want. If our biscuit were 
soaked in milk, it would not be so hard, but 
much improved, said our glutton Ernest. I 
must tell you too, said Fritz, that over on 
the other side there is as much grass for 
pasturage as we can desire, and besides a 
pretty wood, in the shade of which we could 
repose. Why then should we remain on 
this barren desert side? Patience, patience, 
replied I, there is a time for every thing, 
friend Fritz; we shall not be without 
something to undertake tomorrow, and even after 
tomorrow. But, above all, I am eager to 
know if you discovered in your excursion 
any traces of our ship companions. Not 
the smallest trace of man, dead or alive, on 
land or water; but I have seen some other 
animals that more resembled pigs than the 
one I have brought you, but with paws 
more like those of the hare: the animal I 
am speaking of, leaps from place to place on 
the grass, now sitting on his hind legs, 
rubbing his face with his front feet, and then 
seeking for roots and gnawing them like 
the squirrel. If I had not been afraid of his 
escaping me, I should have tried to catch 
him with my hands, for he appeared almost 
tame.</p>

<p>Ernest, with the look and manner of a 
deep observer, now turned the agouti 
backwards and forwards to examine him on all 
sides. After a long silence, he said with 
importance, I cannot be sure that this animal, 
as you all believe, is a sucking pig; his hair 
and his snout pretty much resemble, it is 
true, those of a pig: but pray observe his 
teeth; he has but four incisores in front 
similar to the genus Voracious animals: in 
general he has a greater resemblance to the 
rabbit than to the hare. I have seen an 
engraving of him in our book of natural history; 
if I am not mistaken he is named the <i>agouti</i>.</p>

<p>Ah! ha! said Fritz, here is a learned 
professor, profound in the subject of natural 
history!</p>

<p>And who this once is not mistaken? 
cried I. Spare your raillery, Fritz, for it is 
really an agouti. I do not myself know any 
thing of the animal: but by his description 
in books or engravings, with which his 
appearance perfectly corresponds; he is a 
native of America, lives under ground on the 
roots of trees, and is, as travellers report, 
excellent food. But of this we will judge 
for ourselves.</p>

<p>While we were speaking, Jack was trying 
with all his might to open one of the oysters 
with his knife; but he could not succeed. I 
laughed heartily at his disappointment, and 
put a few of them on the fire, where they 
soon opened of themselves. Now then, boys, 
you may have as fine and choice a regale as 
if you were in a palace. I swallowed one 
myself; but I have never been fond of 
oysters; and the boys, observing the wry face 
I made, all looked at me with surprise. I 
thought every body was fond of oysters, 
papa, said one of them. I do not mean to 
dispute the taste of others, replied I; but, for 
myself, nothing but a craving hunger could 
force me to make a meal of them; but you 
can yourselves try the experiment, and 
perhaps you will like them. This sort of 
shell-fish is so little agreeable to the eye of those 
unaccustomed to see them, that not one of 
the boys had any inclination to touch them. 
Shortly, however, Jack, in the character of 
the most courageous, swallowed one hastily, 
shutting and squeezing up his eyes as if it 
were a medicine, and the others followed his 
example; but one and all declared that the 
oyster was a fish not at all to their taste, and 
each hastened to dip his shell into the pot to 
get out a little soup; but, as I had foreseen, 
each drew out a scalded finger, and it was 
who could scream the loudest. Ernest was 
the only one who had been too cautious to 
expose himself to this misfortune; he quietly 
took his muscle-shell, as large and deep as a 
plate, from his pocket, and carefully dipping 
it into the pot, drew it out filled with as 
much soup as was his fair share; and casting 
a look of exultation on his brothers, he set 
it down to wait till it should be cold enough 
to eat.</p>

<p>You have taken excellent care of yourself, 
I perceive, said I. But now answer me, 
dear boy, is the advantage worth the pains 
you take to be better off than your 
companions? Yet this is the constant failing of your 
character. As your best friend, I feel it to be 
my duty to balk you of the expected success. 
I therefore adjudge your dish of delicious 
soup to our faithful followers, Turk and 
Ponto. For ourselves, we will all fare alike, 
you as well as the rest; we will simply dip 
our oyster-shells into the pot till hunger is 
appeased; but the picked dish for the dogs, 
Ernest, and all the rest <i>alike!</i></p>

<p>This gentle reproach sunk, I perceived, 
into his heart; he placed the shell, filled 
with soup, upon the ground, and in the 
twinkling of an eye the dogs had licked up 
every drop. We on our parts were almost 
as sharp set as they, and every eye was fixed 
on the pot, watching when the steam would 
subside a little, that we might begin dipping; 
when on looking round we saw Turk and 
Ponto standing over the agouti, gnawing and 
tearing him fiercely with their teeth and 
paws. The boys all screamed together; 
Fritz seized his gun, and struck them with it; 
called them the unkindest names, threw 
stones at them, and was so furious, that, if I 
had not interfered, it is probable he would 
have killed them. He had already bent his 
gun with the blows he had aimed at them, 
and his voice was raised so high as to be 
reechoed from the rocks.</p>

<p>When he had grown a little cool, I 
seriously remonstrated with him on his 
violence of temper. I represented to him what 
distress he had occasioned his mother and 
myself for the event of a rage so alarming; 
that his gun, which might have been so 
useful, was now entirely spoiled; and that 
the poor animals, upon whose assistance we 
should probably so much depend, he had, 
no doubt, greatly injured. Anger, continued 
I, is always a bad counsellor, and may even 
lead the way to crimes; you are not ignorant 
of the history of Cain, who, in a moment 
of violent anger, killed his brother. Say no 
more, my dearest father, interrupted Fritz 
in a tone of horror.—Happy am I to recollect 
on this occasion, resumed I, that they were 
animals, and not human creatures, you treated 
thus. But an angry person never reasons; 
he scarcely knows whom he attacks. The 
most convincing proof of this, is, that you 
just now fell upon two dumb animals 
incapable of judgement, and who most likely 
thought that your agouti was placed there, 
as the soup had been before, for them to eat. 
Confess too, that it was vanity which excited 
the furious temper you exhibited. If another 
than yourself had killed the agouti, you 
would have been more patient under that 
accident. Fritz agreed that I was right, and, 
half drowned in tears, entreated my 
forgiveness.</p>

<p>Soon after we had taken our meal, the 
sun began to sink into the west. Our little 
flock of fowls assembled round us, pecking 
here and there what morsels of our biscuit 
had fallen on the ground. Just at this 
moment my wife produced the bag she had so 
mysteriously huddled into the tub. Its mouth 
was now opened,—it contained the various 
sorts of grain for feeding poultry—barley, 
peas, oats, <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr>, and also different kinds of 
seeds of vegetables for the table. In the fullness 
of her kind heart she scattered several 
handfuls at once upon the ground, which 
the innocent creatures began eagerly to seize. 
I complimented her on the benefit her foresight 
had secured for us; but I recommended 
a more sparing use of so valuable an acquisition, 
observing, that the grain, if kept for 
sowing, would produce a harvest, and that 
we could fetch from the ship spoiled biscuit 
enough to feed the fowls. Our pigeons 
sought a roosting place among the rocks; 
the hens, with the two cocks at their head, 
ranged themselves in a line along the ridge 
of the tent; and the geese and ducks betook 
themselves in a body, cackling and quacking 
as they proceeded, to a marshy bit of ground 
near the sea, where some thick bushes 
afforded them shelter.</p>

<p>A little later, we ourselves began to follow 
the example of our winged companions by 
beginning our preparations for repose. First, 
we charged our guns and pistols, and laid 
them carefully in the tent: next, we 
assembled all together and joined in offering up 
our thanks to the Almighty for the succour 
afforded us, and supplicating his watchful 
care for our preservation. With the last ray 
of the sun we entered our tent, and laid 
ourselves close to each other on the grass 
and moss we had collected in the morning.</p>

<p>The children observed, with surprise, that 
darkness came upon us all at once; that 
night succeeded to day without an 
intermediate twilight.—This, replied I, makes me 
suspect that we are not far from the equator, 
or at least between the tropics, where this is 
of ordinary occurrence; for the twilight is 
occasioned by the rays of the sun being 
broken in the atmosphere; the more obliquely 
they fall, the more their feeble light 
is extended and prolonged; while, on the 
other hand, the more perpendicular the rays 
the less their declination: consequently the 
change from day to night is much more 
sudden when the sun is under the horizon.</p>

<p>I looked once more out of the tent to see 
if all was quiet around us, and then carefully 
fastened the sail-cloth across the entrance. 
The old cock, awakened by the rising of the 
moon, chaunted our vespers, and then I lay 
down to sleep. In proportion as we had been 
during the day oppressed with heat, we were 
now in the night inconvenienced by the cold 
so that we were obliged to cling close to 
each other for warmth. A sweet sleep began 
to close the eyes of my beloved family; I 
was secretly endeavouring to keep awake till 
I was sure my wife’s solicitude had yielded 
to the same happy state, and then I closed 
my own. Thanks to the fatigue we had 
undergone, our first night in the desert island 
was very tolerably comfortable.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap03" id="chap03" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER III.<br/>
<small><em>Voyage of discovery.</em></small></h2>

<p><span class="smcap">I was</span> awaked at the first dawn of day by 
the crowing of the cocks. I awoke my wife, 
and we consulted together as to our 
occupation for the day. We both agreed, that the 
thing of the most importance was to seek 
for such traces as might be found of our 
late ship companions, and at the same time 
to examine the nature of the soil on the 
other side of the river before we came to 
a determination about a fixed place of 
abode. My wife easily perceived that such 
an excursion could not be undertaken by all 
the members of the family; and full of 
confidence in the protection of Heaven, she 
courageously consented to my proposal of 
my leaving her with the three youngest boys, 
and proceeding myself with Fritz on a 
journey of discovery. I entreated her not to 
lose a moment in giving us our breakfast. 
She gave us notice that the share of each 
would be but small, there being no more 
soup prepared. What then, I asked, is 
become of Jack’s lobster? That he can best 
tell you himself, answered his mother. But 
now pray step and awake the boys, while I 
make a fire and put on some water.</p>

<p>The children were soon roused; even our 
slothful Ernest submitted to the hard fate of 
rising so early in the morning. When I 
asked Jack for his lobster, he ran and fetched 
it from a cleft in the rock in which he had 
carefully concealed it. I was determined, 
said he, that the dogs should not treat my 
lobster as they did the agouti, for I knew 
them for a sort of gentlemen to whom 
nothing comes amiss. I am glad to see, son 
Jack, said I, that that giddy head upon your 
shoulders can be prevailed upon to reflect. 
Happy is he who knows how to profit in 
the misfortunes of others, says the proverb. 
But will you not kindly give Fritz the great 
claw which bit your leg (though I promised 
it to you) to carry with him for his dinner on 
our journey?</p>

<p>What journey? asked all the boys at 
once. Ah! we will go too: a journey,—a 
journey—repeated they, clapping their hands 
and jumping round me like little kids. For 
this time, said I, it is impossible for all of 
you to go; we know not yet what we are 
to set about, nor whither we are going. 
Your eldest brother and myself shall be better 
able to defend ourselves in any danger 
without you; besides, that with so many 
persons we could proceed but slowly. You 
will then all three remain with your mother 
in this place, which appears to be one of 
perfect safety, and you shall keep Ponto to 
be your guard, while we will take Turk with 
us. With such a protector, and a gun well 
loaded, who shall dare treat us with 
disrespect? Fritz, make haste and tie up Ponto, that 
he may not follow us; and have your eye 
on Turk, that he may be at hand to 
accompany us, and get the guns ready.</p>

<p>At the word guns the colour rose in the 
cheeks of my poor boy. His gun was so 
curved as to be of no use; he took it up 
and tried in vain to straighten it; I let him 
alone for a short time; but at length I gave 
him leave to take another, perceiving with 
pleasure that the vexation had produced a 
proper feeling in his mind. A moment after, 
he attempted to lay hold of Ponto to tie him 
up; but the dog, recollecting the blows he 
had so lately received, began to snarl, and 
would not go near him. Turk behaved the 
same, and I found it necessary to call with 
my own voice to induce them to approach 
us. Fritz then in tears entreated for some 
biscuit of his mother, declaring that he would 
willingly go without his breakfast to make 
his peace with the dogs; he accordingly 
carried them some biscuit, stroked and 
caressed them, and in every motion seemed to 
ask their pardon. As of all animals, 
without excepting man, the dog is least addicted 
to revenge, and at the same time is the most 
sensible of kind usage, Ponto instantly 
relented, and began to lick the hands which 
fed him; but Turk, who was of a more 
fierce and independent temper, still held off, 
and seemed to feel a want of confidence in 
Fritz’s advances. Give him a claw of my 
lobster, cried Jack, for I mean to give it all 
to you for your journey.</p>

<p>I cannot think why you should give it all, 
said Ernest, for you need not be uneasy 
about their journey. Like Robinson Crusoe 
they will be sure enough to find some cocoa-nuts, 
which they will like much better than 
your miserable lobster: only think, a fine 
round nut, Jack, as big as my head, and with 
at least a tea-cup full of delicious sweet milk 
in it!</p>

<p>Oh! brother Fritz, pray do bring me 
some, said the little Francis.</p>

<p>We now prepared for our departure: we 
took each a bag for game, and a hatchet; 
I put a pair of pistols in the leather band 
round Fritz’s waist in addition to the gun, 
and provided myself with the same articles, 
not forgetting a stock of biscuit and a flask 
of fresh river water. My wife now called 
us to breakfast, when all attacked the 
lobster; but its flesh proved so hard, that there 
was a great deal left when our meal was 
finished, and we packed it for our journey 
without further regret from any one. The 
sea-lobster is an animal of considerable size, 
and its flesh much more nutritious, but 
much less delicate, than the common lobster.</p>

<p>Fritz urged me to set out before the 
excessive heat came on. With all my heart, 
said I, but we have forgotten one thing of 
importance. What is that? asked Fritz 
looking round him; I see nothing else to do 
but to take our leave of my mother and my 
brothers. I know what it is, said Ernest, we 
have not said our prayers this morning.</p>

<p>That is the very thing, my dear boy, said 
I. We are too apt to forget God, the parent 
of all, for the cares of this world; and yet 
never had we so much need of his support and 
protection as in our present situation, and 
particularly at the moment of undertaking a 
journey to an unknown soil.</p>

<p>Upon this, our little pickle Jack began to 
imitate the sound of church-bells, and to cry 
Bome! bome! bidi bome, bidiman, bome, 
To prayers, to prayers, bome, bome.—Thoughtless 
boy! cried I with a look of 
displeasure, will you then never learn that there 
is a sacredness in devotion, that, in a well 
disposed mind, banishes for the time every 
thought of levity or amusement? Recollect 
yourself, and let this be the last time you 
force from me a reproof on a subject of so 
grave a nature.</p>

<p>In about an hour we had completed all 
that was necessary to be done previous to our 
departure, and were ready to set out. I had 
loaded the guns we left behind, and I now 
enjoined my wife to keep by day as near the 
boat as possible, which in case of danger was 
the best and most speedy means of escape. 
My next concern was to shorten the moment 
of separation, judging by my own heart of 
the emotion of my dear wife; for it was 
impossible we could mutually be without the 
most painful apprehension, as to what new 
misfortune might occur on either side 
during the interval. We all melted into tears;—I 
seized this instant for drawing Fritz away, 
and in a few moments the sobs and often 
repeated adieus of those we left behind, were 
drowned in the noise of the waves which we 
were approaching on our way, and which 
now turned our thoughts upon ourselves 
and the immediate object of our journey.</p>

<p>The river we were about to pass, was on 
each side so steep as to be inaccessible, 
except by one narrow slip near the mouth, on 
one side, and from whence we had already 
drawn our supply of fresh water: but there 
was no means of effecting a passage across 
from this place, the opposite shore being an 
unbroken line of sharp, high, perpendicular 
rocks. We therefore walked on, following 
the course of the river till we arrived at an 
assemblage of rocks at which the stream 
formed a cascade: a few paces beyond, we 
observed some large fragments of rock which 
had fallen into the bed of the river; by 
stepping upon these, and making now and 
then some hazardous leaps, we at length 
contrived to reach to the other side. We 
had proceeded a short way along the rock we 
ascended in landing, forcing ourselves a passage 
through overgrown grass mixed with plants, 
and rendered more capable of resistance by 
being half dried up by the sun. Perceiving 
however, that walking on this kind of surface, 
joined to the heat, would soon exhaust our 
strength, we looked for a path by which we 
might descend and proceed along the river, 
in which direction we hoped to meet with 
fewer obstacles, and perhaps might discover 
traces of the boats and of our ship 
companions.</p>

<p>When we had walked about a hundred 
paces, we heard a loud noise behind us as if 
we were pursued, and perceived a rustling 
motion in the grass, which was almost as 
tall as ourselves. I confess I was a good 
deal alarmed, thinking that it was probably 
occasioned by some frightful serpent, a 
tiger, or other ferocious animal, which might 
instantly devour us. But I was well satisfied 
with the courage of Fritz, who, instead of 
being frightened and running away, stood still 
and firm to face the danger; the only motion 
he made being that of seeing that his piece 
was fit to be discharged, and turning himself 
to front the spot from whence the noise proceeded. 
Our alarm however was of short duration; 
for what was our joy on seeing rush 
out, not an enemy, but our faithful Turk 
whom in the distress of the parting scene 
we had quite forgotten, and whom no doubt 
our anxious relatives had sent on to us! We 
received the poor fellow with lively joy, and 
did not fail to commend both the bravery 
and discretion of my son, in not yielding to 
even a rational alarm, and for waiting till he 
was sure of the object before he resolved to 
fire: had he done otherwise, he might have 
destroyed a creature formed to afford us 
various kinds of aid, and to contribute by the 
kindness of his temper to the pleasures of 
our domestic scene. Observe, my dear boy, 
said I, to what dangers the tumult of the 
passions exposes us: the anger which over-powered 
you yesterday, and the terror natural 
to the occasion we have this moment 
witnessed, if you had unfortunately given way 
to it, might either of them have produced for 
us an irretrievable misfortune.</p>

<p>Fritz assured me he was sensible of 
truth and importance of my remarks; that 
he would watch constantly over the defects 
of his temper: and then he fell to caressing 
the faithful and interesting animal.</p>

<p>Conversing on such subjects as these, 
we pursued our way. On our left was the 
sea, and on our right, at the distance of half 
a league, the continuation of the ridge of 
rocks, which extended from the place of our 
debarkation in a direction nearly parallel 
with the shore, the summit every where 
adorned with a fresh verdure and a great 
variety of trees; and the space between, 
partly covered with tall grass and partly with 
small clumps of bushes, which on one side 
extended to the rocks, and on the other to 
the sea. We were careful to proceed in a 
course as near the shore as possible, fixing 
our eyes rather upon its smooth expanse 
than upon the land, at every instant in hopes 
to see something of the boats. We did not 
however wholly neglect the shore, where we 
looked about in all directions for the objects 
of our search: but our endeavours were all 
in vain; no sign appeared of their having 
been near the spot.</p>

<p>Fritz proposed to fire his gun from time 
to time, suggesting that, should they be any 
where concealed near us, they might thus 
be led to know of our pursuit.</p>

<p>This would be vastly well, answered I, if 
you could contrive for our friends to hear 
the report of the gun, and not the savages, 
who are most likely not far distant, and who 
would be induced by the alarm, to watch and 
surprise us. I am thinking, father, interrupted 
Fritz, that there is no good reason 
why we should give ourselves so much trouble 
and uneasiness about persons who abandoned 
us so cruelly, and thought only of 
their own safety.</p>

<p>There is not only one good reason, but 
many, replied I: first, we should not return 
evil for evil; next, it may be in their power to 
be of use and to assist us; and lastly, that 
they are most likely at this moment in the 
greatest want of our exertions. It was their 
lot to escape with nothing but their persons 
from the ship, if indeed they are still alive 
while we had the good fortune to secure 
provisions enough for present subsistence 
to a share of which they are as fully 
entitled as ourselves.</p>

<p>But, father, while we are wandering here 
and losing our time almost without a hope 
of benefit to them, might we not better 
employ ourselves in returning to the vessel and 
saving the lives of the animals on board?</p>

<p>When a variety of duties present themselves 
for our choice, we should always give 
the preference to that which can confer the 
most solid advantage. The saving of the life 
of a man, is a more exalted action than to be 
employed in contributing to the further 
comfort of some quadrupeds, whom we have already 
supplied with food for several days 
longer, particularly as the sea is in so calm 
a state, that we need entertain no apprehension 
that the ship will be sunk or go entirely 
to pieces just at present.</p>

<p>My son made no reply to what I said, and 
we each seemed by mutual silent consent to 
take a few moments for reflection.</p>

<p>When we had gone about two leagues, 
we entered a wood situated a little further 
from the sea: here we threw ourselves on 
the ground, and under the shade of a tree, 
by the side of a clear running stream, 
took out some provisions and refreshed 
ourselves. We heard on every side around us, 
the chirping, singing, and the motion of 
unknown birds among the leaves, and which 
in reality were more attractive by their 
splendid plumage than by any charm of note. 
Fritz assured me that between the branches 
of the bushes he saw some animals 
resembling apes: this indeed was further 
confirmed by the restless movements we had 
observed in Turk, who began to smell about 
him, and to bark so loud that the wood 
resounded with the noise. Fritz stole softly 
about to be sure, and raising his head to spy 
into the branches above his height, he 
stumbled on a small round body which lay on the 
ground: he took it up and brought it to 
me, observing that he thought it must be the 
nest of some bird. What makes you of 
that opinion? said I. It is, I think, much more 
like a cocoa-nut.</p>

<p>But I have read that there are some kinds 
of birds who build their nests quite round; 
and look, father, how the outside is crossed 
and twined!</p>

<p>That is true, Fritz; but it is wrong from a 
single view to be so positive. Do you not 
perceive that what you take for straws crossed 
and twined by the beak of a bird, is in 
fact a coat of fibres formed by the hand of 
nature? Do you not remember to have read 
that the nut of a cocoa shell is inclosed 
within a round fibrous covering, which again 
is surrounded by a skin of a thin and fragile 
texture? I see that in the one you hold in 
your hand, this skin has been destroyed by 
time, and this is the reason why the twisted 
fibres (or inner covering) are so apparent; but 
now let us break the shell, and you will see 
the nut inside.</p>

<p>We soon accomplished this; but the nut, 
alas, from lying on the ground had perished, 
and appeared but little different from a bit 
of dried skin, and not the least inviting to 
the palate.</p>

<p>Fritz was much amused at this discovery. 
How I wish Ernest could have been here! 
cried he. How he envied me the fine large 
cocoa-nuts I was to find, and the whole tea 
cup full of sweet delicious milk, which was 
to spring out upon me from the inside! 
But, father, I myself believed that the cocoa-nut 
contained a sweet refreshing liquid, a 
little like the juice of almonds; travellers 
surely tell untruths!</p>

<p>Travellers certainly do sometimes tell 
untruths, but on the subject of the cocoa-nut 
I believe them to be innocent. The cocoa-nut 
is well known to contain the liquid you 
describe, just before they are in a state of 
ripeness. It is the same with our European nuts, 
with only the difference of quantity; and the 
circumstance is common to both, that as the 
nut ripens, the milk diminishes, by 
thickening and becoming the same substance as the 
nut. If you put a ripe nut a little way 
under the earth in a good soil, the kernel will 
shoot and burst the shell; but if it remain 
above ground, or in a place that does not 
suit its nature, the principle of vegetation 
is extinguished by internal fermentation, 
and the nut perishes as you have seen.</p>

<p>I am now surprised that this principle is 
not extinguished in every nut; for the shell 
is so hard, it seems impossible for a softer 
substance to break it.</p>

<p>The peach stone is no less hard: the 
kernel notwithstanding never fails to break it, 
if it is placed in a well nurtured soil.</p>

<p>Now I begin to understand. The peach 
stone is divided into two parts like a 
muscle-shell; it has a kind of seam round it, which 
separates of itself when the kernel is swelled 
by moisture:—but the cocoa-nut in my hand 
is not so divided, and I cannot conceive of 
its separating.</p>

<p>I grant that the cocoa-nut is differently 
formed; but you may see by the fragments 
you have just thrown on the ground, that 
nature has in another manner stepped in to 
its assistance. Look near the stalk, and you 
will discover three round holes, which are 
not, like the rest of its surface, covered with a 
hard impenetrable shell, but are stopped by 
a spongy kind of matter; it is through these 
that the kernel shoots.</p>

<p>I will gather all the pieces and take them 
to Ernest, and tell him all these particulars; 
I wonder what he will say about it, and how 
he will like the withered nut.</p>

<p>Now the fancy of your father, my dear 
boy, would be to find you without so keen 
a relish for a bit of mischief. Joke with 
Ernest if you will about the withered nut; 
but I should like to see you heal the 
disappointment he will feel, by presenting him at 
last with a sound and perfect nut, provided 
we should have one to spare.</p>

<p>After looking for some time, we had the 
good luck to meet with one single nut. We 
opened it, and finding it sound, we sat down 
and ate it for our dinner, by which means 
we were enabled to husband the provisions 
we had brought. The nut, it is true, was a 
little oily and rancid; yet, as this was not a 
time to be nice, we made a hearty meal, and 
then continued our route. We did not quit 
the wood, but pushed our way through it, 
being often obliged to cut a path through 
the bushes overrun by creeping plants, with 
our hatchet. At length we reached a plain, 
which afforded a more extensive prospect 
and a path less perplexed and intricate.</p>

<p>We next entered a forest to the right, and 
soon observed in it here and there some trees 
of a particular species. Fritz, whose sharp 
eye was continually on a journey of 
discovery, remarked that some of them were of 
so very extraordinary an appearance, that 
he could not resist the curiosity he felt to 
examine them closely. O heavens! father, 
he next exclaimed, what a singular kind of 
trees, with wens growing all about their 
trunks! We both walked up to some of 
them, and I perceived, with great surprise 
and satisfaction, that they were of the gourd 
tree kind, the trunks of which bear fruit. 
Fritz, who had never heard of such a tree, 
could not conceive the meaning of what he 
saw, and asked me if the fruit was a sponge 
or a wen. We will see, I replied, if we 
cannot unravel the mystery. Try to get down 
one of them, and we will examine them 
minutely.</p>

<p>I have got one, cried Fritz, and it is 
exactly like a gourd, only the rind is thicker 
and harder.</p>

<p>It then, like the rind of that fruit, can be 
used for making various utensils, observed I; 
plates, dishes, basons, flasks. We will give 
it the name of the gourd tree.</p>

<p>Fritz jumped for joy. O heavens! cried 
he in ecstasy, how happy my mother will 
be! She will no longer have the vexation, 
when she makes soup, of thinking that we 
shall all scald our fingers!</p>

<p>What, my boy, do you think is the reason 
that this tree bears its fruit only on the trunk 
and on its topmost branches?</p>

<p>I think it must be because the middle 
branches are too feeble to support such a 
weight.</p>

<p>You have guessed exactly right.</p>

<p>But are these gourds good to eat?</p>

<p>At worst they are, I believe, harmless; 
but they have not a very tempting flavour. 
The negro savages set as much value on the 
rind of this fruit as on gold, for its use to 
them is indispensable. These rinds serve them 
to keep their food and drink in, and 
sometimes they even cook their victuals in them.</p>

<p>Oh, father! it must be impossible to cook 
their victuals in them; for the heat of fire 
would soon consume such a substance.</p>

<p>I did not say the rind was put upon the 
fire.</p>

<p>How droll! Pray how are victuals to be 
cooked without fire?</p>

<p>Nor did I say that victuals could be cooked 
without a fire; and my meaning was, that 
there is no need to put the vessel that 
contains the food, upon the fire.</p>

<p>I have not the least idea of what you 
mean; there seems to be a miracle.</p>

<p>So be it, my son. A little tincture of 
enchantment is the lot of man. When he 
finds himself deficient in intelligence, or is 
too indolent to give himself the trouble to 
reflect, he is driven by his weakness to ascribe 
to a miracle, or to witchcraft, what is, most 
likely, nothing but the most ordinary 
operation of art or nature.</p>

<p>Well, father, I will then believe in what 
you tell me of these rinds.</p>

<p>That is, you will cut the matter short, by 
resolving to swear on the word of another; 
this is an excellent method for letting your 
own reason lie fallow. Come, come, no such 
idleness; let me help you to understand this 
amazing phenomenon. When it is intended 
to dress food in one of these rinds, the 
process is, to cut the fruit into two equal parts, 
and scoop out the whole of the inside; some 
water is put into one of the halves, and into 
the water some fish, a crab, or whatever else 
is to be dressed; then some stones red hot, 
beginning with one at a time, are thrown in, 
which impart sufficient heat to the water to 
dress the food, without the smallest injury to 
the pot.</p>

<p>But is not the food spoiled by ashes falling 
in, or by pieces of the heated stones 
separating in the water?</p>

<p>Certainly it is not very easy to make fine 
sauces or ragouts in such a vessel; but 
a dressing of the meat is actually 
accomplished, and the negroes and savages, who 
are principally the persons to make use of 
what is thus cooked, are not very delicate: 
but I can imagine a tolerable remedy for 
even the objection you have found. The food 
might be inclosed in a vessel small enough 
to be contained in our capacious half of a 
gourd, and thus be cooked upon the 
principle so much used in chemistry, the 
application of a milder heat than fire. And this 
method of cooking has also another 
advantage, that the thing contained cannot adhere 
to the sides or bottom of the vessel.</p>

<p>We next proceeded to the manufacture of 
our plates and dishes. I taught my son how 
to divide the gourd with a bit of string, which 
would cut more equally than a knife; I tied 
the string round the middle of the gourd as 
tight as possible, striking it pretty hard with 
the handle of my knife, and I drew tighter 
and tighter till the gourd fell apart, forming 
two regular shaped bowls or vessels; while 
Fritz, who had used a knife for the same 
operation, had entirely spoiled his gourd by 
the irregular strokes of his instrument. I 
recommended his making some spoons with 
the spoiled rind, as it was good for no other 
purpose. I, on my part, had soon completed 
two dishes of convenient size, and some 
smaller ones to serve as plates.</p>

<p>Fritz was in the utmost astonishment at 
my success. I cannot imagine, father, said 
he, how this way of cutting the gourd could 
occur to you!</p>

<p>I have read the description of such a 
process, replied I, in books of travels; and also, 
that such of the savages as have no knives, 
and who make a sort of twine from the bark 
of trees, are accustomed to use it for this 
kind of purpose. So you see what benefit 
may be derived from reading, and from 
afterwards reflecting on what we read.</p>

<p>And the flasks, father; in what manner 
are they made?</p>

<p>For this branch of their ingenuity they 
make preparation a long time beforehand. 
If a negro wishes to have a flask or bottle 
with a neck, he ties a very young gourd 
round in the proper place with a piece of 
string, of linen, bark of a tree, or any thing 
he can get hold of; he draws this bandage 
so tight, that the part at liberty soon forms 
itself to a round shape, while the part which 
is confined contracts, and remains ever after 
narrow. By this method it is that they obtain 
flasks or bottles of a perfect form.</p>

<p>Are then the bottle-shaped gourds I have 
seen in Europe trained by a similar preparation? </p>

<p>No, they are not; they are of another 
species, and what you have seen is their 
natural shape.</p>

<p>Our conversation and our labour thus 
went on together. Fritz had completed 
some plates, and was not a little proud of this 
achievement. Ah, how delighted my mother 
will be to eat upon them! cried he. But 
how shall we convey them to her? They will 
not, I fear, bear travelling well.</p>

<p>We must leave them here on the sand 
for the sun to dry them thoroughly; this 
will be accomplished by the time of our 
return this way, and we can then carry them 
with us; but care must be taken to fill them 
with sand, that they may not shrink or warp 
in so ardent a heat. My boy did not dislike 
this task; for he had no great fancy to the 
idea of carrying such a load on our journey 
of further discovery. Our sumptuous 
service of porcelain was accordingly spread upon 
the shore, and abandoned to its fate.</p>

<p>We amused ourselves as we walked along 
in endeavouring to fashion some spoons from 
the fragments of the gourd-rinds. I had the 
fancy to try my skill upon a piece of cocoa-nut; 
but I must needs confess that what we 
produced had not the least resemblance to those 
I had seen in the Museum at London, and 
which were shown there as the work of 
some of the islanders of the Southern Seas. 
A European without instruments must 
always find himself excelled in such attempts 
by the superior adroitness and patience of 
savages; in this instance too, of ourselves, 
we had the assistance of knives, while the 
savages have only sharp flat stones to work 
with.</p>

<p>My attempt has been scarcely more 
successful than your own, I cried; and to eat soup 
with either your spoon or mine, we ought 
to have mouths extending from ear to ear.</p>

<p>True enough, father, answered Fritz; but 
it is not my fault. In making mine, I took 
the curve of my bit of rind for a guide; if 
I had made it smaller, it would have been 
too flat, and it is still more difficult to eat with 
a shovel than with an oyster-shell. But I 
am thinking that they may serve till I have 
learned to improve upon my first attempt, 
and I am quite sure of the pleasure they will 
afford my mother. I imagine it pleases God 
sometimes to visit his creatures with distress, 
that they may learn to be satisfied with a 
little.</p>

<p>That is an excellent remark, my boy, said 
I, and gives me more pleasure than a 
hundred crowns would do. Fritz burst into a 
fit of laughter. You do not rate my remark 
very high when you say this, father, cried he, 
for of what use would a hundred crowns be 
to you at present? If you had said a good 
soup or a hundred cocoa-nuts, I should be 
much prouder for having made it.</p>

<p>But as it is, my son, you have a right to 
be proud. I am well pleased to find you are 
beginning to estimate things according to 
their real value and usefulness, instead of 
considering them as good or bad, like 
children, upon feeble views. Money is only a 
means of exchange in human society; but 
here on this solitary coast, nature is more 
generous than man, and asks no payment for 
the benefits she bestows.</p>

<p>While these different conversations and 
our labours had been going on, we had not 
neglected the great object of our pursuit,—the 
making every practicable search for our 
ship-companions. But all, alas, was in 
vain.</p>

<p>After a walk of about four leagues in all, 
we arrived at a spot where a slip of land 
reached far out into the sea, on which we 
observed a hill or rising piece of ground of 
considerable height. On a moment’s 
reflection we determined to ascend to its 
summit, which could not fail to give us a clear 
view of all adjacent parts; this would save 
us the fatigue of further rambles. We 
accordingly accomplished the design.</p>

<p>We did not reach the top of the hill 
without many courageous efforts and a 
plentiful perspiration: but when there, it 
presented a magnificent scene of wild and 
solitary beauty, comprehending a vast extent of 
land and water. It was, however, in vain 
that we made use of our spying glass; no 
trace of man appeared. A highly 
embellished nature presented herself; and though 
deprived of human succour, we were in the 
highest degree sensible of her thousand 
charms. The shore, rounded by a bay of 
some extent, the bank of which ended in a 
promontory on the further side; the 
agreeable blue tint of its surface; the sea, gently 
agitated with waves, in which the rays of the 
sun were reflected; the woods of variegated 
hues and verdure, formed altogether a 
picture of such new and exquisite delight, 
that if the recollection of our unfortunate 
companions, already perhaps ingulfed in 
this very ocean, had not intervened to damp 
our spirits, we should have yielded to the 
ecstasy the scene was calculated to inspire. 
In reality, from this moment we began to 
lose the consolatory hope we had hitherto 
entertained, and a certain sadness stole 
involuntarily into our hearts. We, however, 
became but the more sensible of the goodness 
of the Divine Being in the special protection 
afforded us, in permitting us to find a home 
where there seemed to be no cause for fear 
of danger from without, where we had not 
experienced even the want of food, and 
where there seemed to be a prospect of future 
safety for us all. We had encountered no 
venomous or ferocious animals; and as far 
as our sight could yet reach, we were not 
threatened by the approach of savages. I 
remarked to Fritz that we seemed destined 
to a solitary life, and that it was a rich 
country which appeared to be allotted us for a 
habitation; at least our habitation it must 
be, unless some vessel should happen to put 
on shore on the same coast, and be in a 
condition to take us back to our native land. 
And God’s will be done! added I, for he 
knows what is best for us.</p>

<p>Having left our native country, fixed in 
the intention of inhabiting some more 
propitious soil,<sup><a id="asterisk1text"/><a href="#asterisk1" class="pginternal">*</a></sup> it was natural to expect that 
we must at first encounter difficult 
adventures. Let us, therefore, consider our 
present situation as no disappointment in any 
essential respect. We can pursue our scheme 
for agriculture. We shall learn to invent 
arts. Our only want is numbers.</p>

<p>As for me, answered Fritz, I care but little 
about being so few of us. If I have the 
happiness of seeing you and my mother 
well and satisfied, I shall not give myself 
much uneasiness about those wicked unkind 
ship companions of ours.</p>

<p>Do not say that, my boy; they were not 
all bad people; and the greater part of them 
would have become better men here, because 
they would not have been exposed to the 
attacks of seduction. Social intercourse, 
common interests, united exertions, mutual 
services and counsels, together with the 
reflections which would have grown in such a 
state as this, are agents capable of powerfully 
contributing to the well-being of the 
individual, and to a happy and successful industry.</p>

<p>We, however, of ourselves, observed 
Fritz, form a larger society than was the lot 
of Adam before he had children; and as we 
grow older, we will perform all the necessary 
labour, while you and my mother enjoy a 
serene repose.</p>

<p>Your assurances are as kind as I can 
desire, and they encourage me to struggle with 
what hardships may present themselves. 
Who can foresee in what manner it may be 
the will of Heaven to dispose of us? In 
times of old, God said to one of his chosen: 
“I will cause a great nation to descend from 
thy loins.”</p>

<p>And why may not we too become 
patriarchs, if it please God to continue our lives?</p>

<p>Why not? you ask—and I have not now 
time to answer. But come along, my young 
patriarch, and let us find a shady spot, that 
we may not be consumed with the intensity 
of the sun’s heat before the patriarchal 
condition can be conferred upon us. Look 
yonder at that inviting wood: let us hasten 
thither to take a little rest, then eat our dinner, 
and return to our dear expecting family.</p>

<p>We descended from the hill, and having 
regained the shore, we made our way to the 
wood of palms, which I had just pointed out 
to Fritz; but not without considerable 
difficulty, for our path lay through a quantity of 
reeds, entwined with other plants, which 
greatly obstructed our march. We advanced 
slowly and cautiously, fearing at every step 
we might receive a mortal bite from some 
serpent that might be concealed among 
them. We made Turk go before us, to 
give us timely notice of any thing dangerous. 
I also cut myself a stalk of the reeds of 
uncommon length and thickness, the better to 
defend myself against an enemy that might 
attack me from the ground. It was not 
without astonishment that I perceived a 
glutinous kind of sap proceed from the divided 
end of the stalk. Prompted by curiosity, I 
tasted the sap, and found it sweet and of an 
agreeable flavour, so that not a doubt 
remained in my mind that we were passing through 
a fine plantation of sugar-canes. I again 
applied the cane to my lips, and sucked it for 
some moments, and soon after felt myself 
singularly refreshed and strengthened from 
its use. I determined not to tell Fritz 
immediately of the fortunate discovery I had 
made, preferring that he should find the 
pleasure out for himself. As he was at some 
distance on before, I called out to him to cut 
a reed for his defence. This he instantly 
did, and, without any remark, used it simply 
for a stick, striking lustily with it on all 
sides to clear a passage. This motion 
occasioned the sap to run out abundantly upon 
his hand, and he stopped to examine so 
strange a circumstance. He lifted it up, and 
still a larger quantity escaped. He now 
tasted what was on his fingers. Oh! then 
for the exclamations. Father, father, I have 
found some sugar!—some syrup! I have a 
sugar-cane in my hand! Run quickly, 
father! We were soon together, jointly 
partaking of the pleasure we had in store for his 
dear mother and the younger brothers. In 
the mean time Fritz eagerly devoured the 
single cane he had cut, till his relish for it 
was appeased. I thought this a profitable 
moment to say a word or two about excesses, 
of the wisdom of husbanding even our lawful 
pleasures, and of the advantages of 
moderation in even our most rational enjoyments.</p>

<p>But I was so thirsty, and the sap was so 
delicious!</p>

<p>Your excuse is like that of the drunkard, 
who tells you he drinks immoderately 
because he is thirsty, and because wine has a 
pleasant flavour; while, however good the 
excuse, it does not protect the person from 
being deprived of his reason.</p>

<p>Well, father, I will observe. But I will 
take home a good provision of sugar-canes, 
however. I shall only just taste of them 
once or twice as I walk along. But it will 
be so delightful to regale my mother and my 
little brothers with them!</p>

<p>I have not the least objection; but do not 
take too heavy a load, for recollect you have 
other things to carry, and we have yet far to 
go.</p>

<p>Counsel was given in vain. He persisted 
in cutting at least a dozen of the largest 
canes, tore off their leaves, tied them together, 
and, putting them under his arm, dragged 
them as well as he was able through thick 
and thin to the end of the plantation. We 
arrived without accident at the wood of 
palms, which we entered in search of a place 
of shade, where we might stretch our limbs 
on the ground, and finish our repast. We 
were scarcely settled, when suddenly a great 
number of large monkeys, terrified by the 
sight of us and the barking of Turk, stole 
so nimbly, and yet so quietly, up the trees, 
that we scarcely perceived them till they had 
reached the topmost parts. From this height 
they fixed their eyes upon us, grinding their 
teeth, making most horrible grimaces, and 
saluting us with frightful screams of hostile 
import. I observed that the trees were palms, 
bearing cocoa-nuts, and I instantly conceived 
the hope of obtaining some of this fruit in 
an unripe and milky state, through the 
monkeys. Fritz, on his part, prepared to 
shoot at them instantly. He threw his 
burdens on the ground, and it was with 
difficulty I could prevent him from firing, by 
pulling his arm in another direction. What 
are you going to do, said I, in this youthful 
ardour of yours? What use or what 
pleasure can it be to you to destroy one of these 
monkeys?</p>

<p>Ah, father, why did you not let me kill 
him? Monkeys are such malicious, 
mischievous animals! Look how they raise their 
backs in derision of us!</p>

<p>And is it possible that this can excite your 
vengeance, my most reasonable Mr. Fritz? 
To say the truth, I am not myself a patron 
of the race of monkeys, who, as you say, 
are naturally prone to be malicious. But as 
long as an animal does us no injury, or that 
his death can in no shape be useful in 
preserving our own lives, we have no right to 
destroy it, and still less to torment it for our 
amusement, or from an insensate desire of 
revenge.</p>

<p>We could as easily roast a monkey as any 
kind of game.</p>

<p>Many thanks for the hint! A fine repast 
you would have provided us! Thanks to 
our stars, too, we are each too heavily loaded 
to have carried the dead body to our kitchen, 
and I shrewdly suspect that it would not have 
found the way thither of its own accord. 
Does not your large bundle of sugar-canes 
convince you that I speak the truth? But the 
living monkeys we may perhaps find means to 
make contribute to our service.—See what I 
am going to do;—but step aside, for fear of 
your head. If I succeed, the monkeys will 
furnish us with plenty of our much desired 
cocoa-nuts.</p>

<p>I now began to throw some stones at the 
monkeys; and though I could not make them 
reach to half of the height at which they 
had taken refuge, they showed every mark 
of excessive anger. With their accustomed 
habit of imitation, they furiously tore off, 
nut by nut, all that grew upon the branches 
near them, to hurl them down upon us; so 
that it was with difficulty we avoided the 
blows; and in a short time a large quantity 
of cocoa-nuts lay on the ground round us. 
Fritz laughed heartily at the excellent success 
of our stratagem; and as the shower of 
cocoa-nuts began to subside, we set about 
collecting them. We chose a place where 
we could repose at our ease, to regale 
ourselves on this rich harvest. We opened the 
shells with a hatchet, but not without having 
first enjoyed the sucking of some of the 
milk through the three small holes, round 
which we found it easy to insert a knife, and 
let the milk escape. The milk of the cocoa-nut 
has not in reality a very pleasant flavour; 
but it is excellent for quenching violent thirst. 
What we liked best, was a kind of solid 
cream which adheres to the shell, and which 
we scraped off with our spoons. We mixed 
with it a little of the sap of our sugar-canes, 
and it made a delicious repast; while Turk 
obtained for his share, what remained of the 
sea-lobster, which we now regarded with 
disdain, and to which we added a small quantity 
of biscuit. All this, however, was 
insufficient to satisfy the hunger of so large an 
animal, and he sought about for bits of the 
sugar-canes and of the cocoa-nuts.</p>

<p>Our meal being finished, we prepared to 
leave the place. I tied together such of the 
cocoa-nuts as had retained the stalks, and 
threw them across my shoulder. Fritz 
resumed his bundle of sugar-canes. We 
divided the rest of the things between us, and 
continued our way towards home.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap04" id="chap04" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER IV.<br/>
<small><em>Return from the voyage of discovery. 
A nocturnal alarm.</em></small></h2>

<p><span class="smcap">My</span> poor boy now began to complain 
heavily of fatigue; the bundle of sugar-canes 
galled his shoulders, and he was obliged to 
move it from place to place. At last, he 
stopped to take breath. No, cried he, I never 
could have thought that a few sugar-canes 
could be so heavy. How sincerely I pity the 
poor negroes who carry them in even larger 
quantities, and to a greater distance! I should 
however be so glad, if my mother and my 
brother could but partake of our booty!</p>

<p>A little patience and a little courage, dear 
Fritz, replied I, will enable you to 
accomplish this wish; recollect Esop’s 
bread-basket, which at first was so overwhelming 
a burden, but which at last became so light. 
We can cause it to be the same with your 
sugar-canes, if we consent to diminish them 
by sucking a certain number of them on the 
road; as a precedent, you may dispose of 
one to me, and I will use it at one moment 
as a walking-stick, and at another as a 
sugarplum. Take you one, also; the rest we will 
bind together and put at your back, 
hanging them upon the barrel of your gun, by 
which means you will carry them with ease.</p>

<p>In such a situation as ours we must learn to 
call forth all our intelligence; reflection and 
the faculty of invention must be made to 
compensate our want of means.</p>

<p>While we were conversing and 
proceeding on our way, Fritz perceived that from 
time to time I sucked the end of my 
sugar-cane, and he would needs do the same. It 
was in vain, however, that he tried; scarcely 
a drop of the sap reached his eager lips. 
What then is the reason, said he, that though 
the cane is full of juice, I cannot get out a 
drop?</p>

<p>The reason is, answered I, that you make 
use neither of reflection nor of your 
imagination.</p>

<p>Ah! I recollect now, is it not a question 
about air? Unless there were a particular 
opening in the cane, I may suck in vain, no 
juice will come.</p>

<p>You have well explained the difficulty: 
but how will you manage to set it right?</p>

<p>Father, lend me your cane an instant.</p>

<p>No, no, that will not do; what I wish is, 
that you should yourself invent the remedy.</p>

<p>Let me see; I imagine that I have only to 
make a little opening just above the first 
knot, and then the air can enter.</p>

<p>Exactly right. But tell me what you 
think would be the operation of this 
opening near the first knot; and in what manner 
can it make the juice get into your mouth?</p>

<p>The pith of the cane being completely 
interrupted by each knot in its growth, the 
opening that I might make below, could 
have no effect upon the part above; in 
sucking the juice, I draw in my breath, and thus 
exhaust the air in my mouth; the external 
air presses at the same time through the 
hole I have made, and fills this void: the 
juice of the cane forms an obstacle to this 
effort, and is accordingly driven into my 
mouth. But how shall I manage, when I 
have sucked this part dry, to get at the 
part above?</p>

<p>Oh, ho! Mr. Philosopher, what should 
prevent you, who have been reasoning so 
well about the force and fluidity of the air, 
from immediately conceiving so simple a 
process as that of cutting away the part of the 
cane you have already sucked dry, and 
making a second perforation in the part 
above, so that.....</p>

<p>Oh, I have it, I have it, I understand;—but 
if we should become too expert in the 
art of drawing out the juice, I fear but few 
of the canes will reach our good friends in 
the tent.</p>

<p>I also am not without my apprehensions, 
that of our acquisition we shall carry them 
only a few sticks for fire-wood; for I must 
bring another circumstance to your 
recollection: the juice of the sugar-cane is apt to 
turn sour soon after cutting, and the more 
certainly in such heat as we now experience; 
we may suck them therefore without 
compunction, and without regret at the 
diminution of their numbers.</p>

<p>Well then, if we can do no better with 
the sugar-canes, at least I will take them a 
good provision of the milk of cocoa-nuts, 
which I have here in a tin bottle; we shall 
sit round on the grass and drink it so 
deliciously!</p>

<p>In this too, my generous boy, I fear, you 
will also be disappointed. You talk of milk; 
but the milk of the cocoa-nut, no less than 
the juice of the sugar-cane, when exposed 
to the air and heat, turns soon to vinegar. 
I would almost wager that it is already sour; 
for the tin bottle which contains it, is 
particularly liable to become hot in the sun.</p>

<p>O heavens, how provoking! I must 
taste it this very minute. The tin bottle was 
lowered from his shoulder in the twinkling 
of an eye, and he began to pull the cork 
with all his strength; as soon as it was loose, 
the liquid flew upwards in a brisk stream, 
and with a loud noise and frothing like 
champain.</p>

<p>Bravo, Mr. Fritz! you have manufactured 
there a wine of some mettle. I must now 
caution you not to let it make you tipsy.</p>

<p>Oh, taste it, father, pray taste it; it is 
quite delicious; not the least like vinegar; it 
is rather like excellent new wine; its taste is 
sweet, and it is so sparkling! do take a little, 
father. Is it not good? If all the milk 
remains in this state, the treat will be better 
even than I thought.</p>

<p>I wish it may prove so: but I have my 
fears; its present state is what is called the 
first degree of fermentation; the same thing 
happens to honey dissolved in water, of 
which hydromel is made. When this first 
fermentation is past, and the liquid is clear, it 
is become a sort of wine, or other fermented 
liquor, the quality of which depends on the 
materials used. By the application of heat, 
there next results a second and more 
gradual fermentation, which turns the fluid into 
vinegar. But this may be prevented by 
extraordinary care, and by keeping the vessel 
that contains it in a cool place. Lastly, a 
third fermentation takes place in the vinegar 
itself, which entirely changes its character, 
and deprives it of its taste, its strength, and 
its transparency. In the intense temperature 
of this climate, this triple fermentation comes 
on very rapidly, so that it is not 
improbable that, on entering our tent, you might 
find your liquids turned to vinegar, or even 
to a thick liquid of ill odour: we may 
therefore venture to refresh ourselves with a 
portion of our booty, that it may not all be 
spoiled. Come then, I drink your health, 
and that of our dear family. I find the 
liquor at present both refreshing and 
agreeable; but I am pretty sure that, if we would 
arrive sober, we must not venture on 
frequent libations.</p>

<p>Our regale imparted to our exhausted 
frames an increase of strength and 
cheerfulness; we pursued our way with briskness, 
to the place where we had left our gourd 
utensils upon the sands; we found them 
perfectly dry, as hard as bone, and not the least 
mis-shapen. We now therefore could put them 
into our game bags conveniently enough; 
and this done, we continued our way. 
Scarcely had we passed through the little 
wood in which we breakfasted, when Turk 
sprang furiously away to seize upon a troop 
of monkeys, who were skipping about and 
amusing themselves without observing our 
approach toward the place of their 
merriment. They were thus taken by surprise; and 
before we could get to the spot, our ferocious 
Turk had already seized one of them: it was 
a female monkey who held a young one in 
her arms, which she was caressing almost to 
suffocation, and which incumbrance in 
reality deprived her of the power of escaping. 
The poor creature was killed, and afterwards 
devoured; the young one hid himself in 
the grass, and looked on grinding his teeth 
all the time that this horrible achievement 
was performing. Fritz flew like lightning 
to force the ferocious Turk from his prey. 
He lost his hat, threw down his tin bottle, 
canes, and other burdens, but all in vain; 
he arrived too late to prevent the murder of 
the interesting mother.</p>

<p>The next scene that presented itself was 
of a different nature, and comical enough; 
it afforded me considerable amusement. 
The young monkey, on perceiving Fritz, 
sprang nimbly on his shoulders, and fastened 
his feet securely in the stiff curls of his hair; 
nor could the squalls of Fritz, nor all the 
shaking he gave him, make him let go his 
hold. I ran to them, laughing heartily, for I 
saw that the animal was too young to be 
capable of doing him any injury, while the 
expression of the panic in the features of the 
boy, made the most diverting contrast with 
the grimaces of the monkey, whom I in 
vain endeavoured to disengage. There is 
no remedy, Fritz, said I, but to submit 
quietly and carry him; he will furnish an 
addition to our stock of provisions, though less 
alluring, I must needs confess, than that we 
could wish to take to your mother. The 
conduct of the little animal displays a very 
surprising intelligence; he has lost his mother, 
and he adopts you for his father; perhaps 
he discovered in you something of the air of 
a father of a family.</p>

<p>Or rather the little rogue found out that 
he had to do with a chicken-hearted fellow, 
who shrinks with aversion from the idea of 
ill-treating an animal which has thrown itself 
on his protection. But I assure you, father, 
he is giving me some terrible twitches, and I 
shall be obliged to you to try once more to 
get him off.</p>

<p>With a little gentleness and management 
I found means to succeed. I took the 
creature in my arms as one would an infant, 
and I confess I could not help pitying and 
caressing him. He was not larger than a 
kitten, and quite unable to help himself: its 
mother appeared to us to be at least as tall 
as Fritz.</p>

<p>What shall I do with thee, poor orphan? 
cried I, and how in our state of necessity 
shall I be able to maintain thee? We have 
already more mouths to fill, than food to put 
into them, and our workmen are too young to 
afford us soon much hope from their exertions.</p>

<p>Father, cried Fritz, do let me have this 
little animal in my own keeping. I will take 
the greatest care of him; I will give him all 
my share of the milk of the cocoa-nuts till 
we get our cows and goats; and who knows? 
his monkey instinct may one day assist us 
in discovering some different kinds of 
wholesome fruits.</p>

<p>I have not the least objection, answered I. 
You have conducted yourself throughout this 
tragi-comic adventure as a lad of courage 
and sensibility, and I am well satisfied with 
every circumstance of your behaviour. It is 
therefore but just that the little dependent 
should be given up to your management 
and discretion; much will depend on your 
manner of educating him; by and by we 
shall see whether he will be fittest to aid us 
with his intelligence, or to injure us by his 
malice; in this last case we shall have 
nothing to do but to get rid of him.</p>

<p>While Fritz and I were conversing on the 
subject of his adoption of the young 
monkey, Turk was employed in taking his fill 
of the remains of its unfortunate mother. 
Fritz would have driven him away from so 
cannibal-like a repast: but besides the 
difficulty of restraining him, we had to consider, 
that we might ourselves be in danger from 
the pressing hunger of so powerful an 
animal; all the food we had before given him 
in the day seeming to be nothing for his 
voracious and unbounded appetite.</p>

<p>We now again thought of resuming our 
journey, and accordingly left the ferocious 
Turk to pursue his sanguinary dispositions; 
the little orphan jumped again on the shoulder 
of his protector, while I on my part 
relieved my boy of the bundle of canes. 
Scarcely had we proceeded a quarter of a 
league when Turk overtook us full gallop. 
Fritz and I received him without the usual 
marks of kindness, and reproached him with 
the cruel action he had committed, as if he 
could feel, and understand us; but he showed 
no sign of giving himself any concern about 
the matter, following quietly behind Fritz 
with an air of cool and perfect satisfaction. 
The young monkey appeared uneasy, from 
seeing him so near, and passed round and 
fixed himself on his protector’s bosom, who 
did not long bear with so great an 
inconvenience without having recourse to his 
invention for a remedy. He tied some string 
round Turk’s body in such a way, as to 
admit of the monkey’s being fastened on his 
back with it, and then in a tone really 
pathetic addressed the dog as follows: Now, 
Mr. Turk, since it was you who had the 
cruelty to destroy the mother, it is for you to 
take every care of her child. At first the 
dog was restive and resisted; but by degrees, 
partly by menaces and partly by caresses, we 
succeeded in gaining his good will, and he 
quietly consented to carry the little burden; 
and the young monkey, who also had made 
some difficulties, at length found himself 
perfectly accommodated. Fritz put another 
string round Turk’s neck, by which he might 
lead him, a precaution he used to prevent 
him from going out of sight. I must needs 
confess, we had not the sin of too great haste 
to answer for, so that I had sufficient leisure 
for amusing myself with the idea, that we 
should arrive at our home with something 
of the appearance of keepers of rare animals 
for show. I enjoyed in foresight the 
jubilations of our young ones when they should 
see the figure we made. Ah! cried Fritz, 
I promise you, brother Jack will draw from 
the occasion materials enough for future 
malicious jokes. Do you then, my son, said I, 
take your materials for a model from your 
admirable mother, who never fails to make 
allowance for the buoyant spirits so natural 
to youth. Your reflections on their faults, 
which, thanks be to heaven, are such as to 
do injury to none, give me no pleasure; I 
am aware of their existence without the aid 
of your observations, and I beg you will 
leave to me the task of correcting them.</p>

<p>May I however observe, father, that I 
wish we could cure Turk of his passion for 
attacking living animals, and tearing them 
to pieces? It was, I assure you, a most 
frightful spectacle; the more so, that 
monkeys so much resemble our own species that 
I could scarcely convince myself he was not 
killing a man.</p>

<p>There was reason enough to be disgusted 
with the sight, though it were only an 
animal you saw so treated; but, for all this, it 
would in our situation be dangerous to 
teach our dogs not to attack and kill, if they 
can, what unknown animals they meet with. 
You will see that Turk will soon regard your 
little monkey as a member of our family; 
already he is content to carry him on his 
back; but I assure you we must not discourage 
him in his fancy for attacking wild 
beasts. Heaven bestowed the dog on man 
for his safe-guard and defence, and the horse 
the same: they may be considered as our 
allies against the different tribes of 
pernicious animals. How conspicuous is the 
goodness of the Almighty in the natural 
dispositions he has bestowed on these useful 
creatures, who at all times discover so much 
affection for man, and so easily submit to 
the slavery of serving him! A man on 
horseback, and accompanied by a troop of well 
conditioned dogs, has no occasion to fear 
any species of wild beasts, not even the lion, 
nor the hyena; he may even baffle the 
voracious rapidity of the tiger.</p>

<p>I see clearly how fortunate we are in the 
possession of two such creatures, who feel 
the strongest attachment to our persons and 
are ever ready to protect us from danger; 
but what a pity it was that the horses we 
had on board should have died during our 
voyage, and have left us with only an ass!</p>

<p>Let us take care how we treat even our 
ass with disdain. I wish we had him safe 
on land. Fortunately he is a powerful 
creature of his species, and not of the 
common kind. We may train him to do us the 
same services as are performed by the horse; 
and it is not improbable that he will even 
improve under our care, and from the 
excellent pasture he will find in this climate.</p>

<p>In such conversation as this, on subjects 
equally interesting to both, we forgot the 
length of our journey, and soon found ourselves 
on the bank of the river and near our family 
before we were aware. Ponto on the other 
side announced our approach by a violent 
barking, and Turk replied so heartily, that 
his motions disturbed the tranquillity of his 
little burden, who, in his fright, jumped the 
length of his string from his back to Fritz’s 
shoulder, which he could not afterwards be 
prevailed upon to leave. Turk, who began to 
be well acquainted with the country, ran off 
to meet his companion and announce our 
arrival; and shortly after our much-loved 
family appeared in sight on the opposite shore, 
exhibiting every demonstration of unbounded 
joy at our safe return. They advanced along 
by the course of the river, till they on one 
side, and we on the other, had reached the 
place where we had crossed it in the morning. 
We re-passed it again in safety, and threw 
ourselves into each other’s arms. Scarcely 
had the young ones joined their brother, 
than they again began their joyful 
exclamations: A monkey, a live monkey! Papa, 
mamma, a live monkey! Oh, how delightful! 
how happy shall we be! How did you catch 
him? What a droll face he has! He is very 
ugly, said little Francis, half afraid to touch 
him. He is much prettier than you, retorted 
Jack; only see, he is laughing; I wish I 
could see him eat. Ah! if we had but some 
cocoa-nut! said Ernest; could you not find 
any? Are they nice? Have you brought me 
any milk of almonds? said Francis. Have 
you met with any unfortunate adventure? 
asked my wife. In this manner, questions 
and exclamations succeeded to each other 
without interval, and with such rapidity as 
not to leave us time to answer them.</p>

<p>At length when all became a little 
tranquil I answered them thus: Most happy am I 
to return to you again, my best beloved, and 
God be praised! without having 
encountered any new misfortune. We have even the 
pleasure of presenting you with many 
valuable acquisitions; but in the object nearest 
my heart, the discovering what has become 
of our ship-companions, or of any 
individual of them, we have entirely failed.</p>

<p>Since it pleases God that it should be so, 
said my wife, let us endeavour to be content, 
and let us be grateful to him for having 
saved us from their unhappy fate, and for 
having once more brought us all together: 
I have laboured this day under an unusual 
uneasiness about your safety, and imagined 
a thousand evils that might beset you. The 
day appeared an age. But now I see you 
once more safe and well, I trust I shall again 
resume my tranquillity. But put down your 
burdens; we will all help you; for though 
we have not, I assure you, spent the day in 
idleness, we are less fatigued than you. Quick 
then, my boys, and help to take the loads 
from your father and your brother. Now 
then sit down and tell us your adventures.</p>

<p>Jack received my gun, Ernest the cocoa-nuts, 
Francis the gourd-rinds, and my wife my 
game-bag. Fritz distributed the sugar-canes, 
and put his monkey on the back of Turk, 
to the great amusement of the children, at 
the same time begging Ernest to relieve him 
of his gun. But Ernest, ever careful of his 
own accommodation, assured him, that the 
large heavy bowls with which he was loaded, 
were the most he had strength to carry. His 
mother, a little too indulgent to his lazy 
humour, relieved him of them: and thus we 
proceeded all together to our tent.</p>

<p>Fritz whispered to me, that if Ernest had 
known what the large heavy bowls were, he 
would not so readily have parted with them. 
Then turning to his brother, Why, Ernest, 
cried he, do you know that these bowls are 
cocoa-nuts, your dear much-desired cocoa-nuts, 
and each containing the sweet nice milk 
you have so much wished to taste?</p>

<p>Are they indeed? are they really and truly 
cocoa-nuts, brother? Oh! mamma, return 
them to me quickly; I will carry them if you 
please, and I can carry the gun too without 
finding it heavy.</p>

<p>No, no, Ernest, answered his mother, I 
do not intend to be teased with hearing any 
more of your heavy sighs and moanings 
about your being fatigued; for I am certain 
you would begin again before we had gone 
a hundred paces. Ernest would willingly 
have asked his mother to give him the 
cocoa-nuts and take the gun herself, but this he 
dared not do:—I have only, said he, to get 
rid of these sticks, and carry the gun in my 
hand.</p>

<p>I would advise you not to give up the 
sticks either, said Fritz drily; I know you 
will be sorry if you do; and for this good 
reason—the sticks are sugar-canes!</p>

<p>Sugar-canes! cried he. Sugar-canes! 
exclaimed they all; and, surrounding Fritz, 
made him give them full instructions on the 
sublime art of sucking sugar-canes.</p>

<p>My wife also, who had always entertained 
a high respect for the article of sugar in her 
household management, was perfectly 
astonished, and earnestly entreated we would 
explain to her all about it. I instantly 
complied with her request, giving her every 
explanation and particular respecting our 
journey, and our new acquisitions, which I 
alternately exhibited for her inspection. No one of 
them afforded her more pleasure than the 
plates and dishes, because to persons of 
decent habits they were articles of 
indispensable necessity. We now adjourned to our 
little kitchen, and with great delight observed 
the preparations going forward in it for an 
excellent repast. On one side of the fire we 
saw a turnspit, which my wife had contrived 
by driving two forked pieces of wood into 
the ground, and placing a long even stick 
sharpened at one end across them. By this 
invention she was enabled to roast different 
kinds of fish, or other food, with the help of 
little Francis, who was intrusted with the 
care of turning it round from time to time. 
On the occasion of our return she had 
prepared us the treat of a goose, the fat of 
which ran down into some oyster-shells 
placed there to serve the purpose of a 
dripping-pan. And besides a dish of fish, which 
the little ones had caught, the iron pot was 
upon the fire, provided with a good soup, the 
agreeable odour of which increased our 
appetite. By the side of these most exhilarating 
preparations, stood one of the casks 
which we had recovered from the waves, the 
head of which my wife had knocked out, so 
that it exposed to our view a cargo of the 
finest sort of Dutch cheeses contained in 
round tins. All this display was made to 
excite the appetite of the two travellers, who 
had fared but scantily during the day; and I 
must needs observe, that the whole was very 
little like such a dinner as one should 
expect to see on a desert island.</p>

<p>You indeed but barely did yourselves 
justice, my dear ones, in saying that you had not 
been idle during our absence, cried I. I see 
before me what must have cost you 
considerable labour. I am however a little sorry 
that you have killed one of our geese so 
soon; we must employ the utmost economy 
in the use of our poultry, which may be of 
service in a time of need.</p>

<p>Do not make yourself uneasy on this 
subject, said my wife; for what you see is not 
one of our geese, but a kind of wild bird, and 
is the booty of your son Ernest, who calls him 
by a singular name, and assures me that it is 
good to eat.</p>

<p>Yes, father, I believe that the bird which 
I have caught is a kind of penguin, or we 
might distinguish him by the surname of 
<i>Stupid</i>. He showed himself to be a bird so 
destitute, of even the least degree of 
intelligence, that I killed him with a single blow 
with my stick.</p>

<p>What is the form of his feet, and of his 
beak? asked I.</p>

<p>His feet were formed for swimming; in 
other words, he was what is called 
web-footed; the beak was long, small, and a 
little curved downwards: I have preserved 
his head and neck, that you might examine 
it yourself; it reminds me exactly of the 
penguin, described as so stupid a bird in my 
book of natural history.</p>

<p>You now then perceive, my son, of what 
use it is to read, and to extend our 
knowledge, particularly on subjects of natural 
history and the productions of nature in 
general; by this study and knowledge, we are 
enabled to recognise at the moment, the 
objects which chance throws in our way, 
whether we have seen them before or not. Tell 
me now what birds there are with feet 
formed like those which you have just 
described, and which are so formed to enable 
the creature to strike the water and prevent 
himself from sinking.</p>

<p>There are the man of war bird, 
cormorants, and pelicans, father.</p>

<p>By what mark do you distinguish the 
kind to which you just now said the <i>penguin</i> 
or <i>Stupid</i> belonged?</p>

<p>Upon my word, interrupted his mother, 
I must give the answer myself: and it will 
consist of a petition, that you will take some 
other time for your catechism on birds: when 
once you have begun on any particular 
subject, one never sees the end of it. Now to my 
mind there is a time for every thing; Ernest 
killed the bird, and was able to tell his kind; 
we on our parts shall eat him; what more 
therefore is necessary? Do you not see that 
the poor child is thinking all the while of his 
cocoa-nuts? Let me intercede on his behalf, 
and prevail upon you to let him have the 
pleasure of examining and tasting them.</p>

<p>Ah! thank you, my good mother; I 
shall be very glad if papa will consent.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Well, well, you have my full 
permission. But first you will be obliged to 
learn from Fritz the best manner of opening 
them, so as to preserve the milk: and one 
word more; I recommend to you not to 
forget the young monkey, who has no longer 
his mother’s milk for food.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—I cannot prevail upon him to taste 
a bit; I have offered him every thing we 
have.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—It cannot well be otherwise, for 
he has not yet learned how to eat; you 
must feed him with the milk of cocoa-nuts 
till we can procure something more proper 
for him to eat.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—I will give the poor little creature 
my share with all my heart.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—I have however the greatest 
desire to taste this milk myself, just to know 
what it is like.</p>

<p>And so have I, said the little Francis.</p>

<p>However, gentlemen, the monkey must 
live, said Jack a little maliciously.</p>

<p>And we and our children must live too, 
answered their mother. Come then, the 
supper is ready, and the cocoa-nuts shall be 
for the dessert.</p>

<p>We seated ourselves on the ground; my 
wife had placed each article of the repast in 
one of our newly manufactured dishes, the neat 
appearance of which exceeded all our 
expectations. My sons had not patience to wait, but 
had broken the cocoa-nuts, and already 
convinced themselves of their delicious flavour; 
and then they fell to making spoons with the 
fragments of the shells. The little monkey, 
thanks to the kind temper of Jack, had been 
served the first, and each amused himself 
with making him suck the corner of his 
pocket-handkerchief, dipped in the milk of 
the cocoa-nut. He appeared delighted with 
the treatment he received, and we remarked 
with satisfaction, that we should most likely 
be able to preserve him.</p>

<p>The boys were preparing to break some 
more of the nuts with the hatchet, after having 
drawn out the milk through the three little 
holes which I have already observed are found 
near the stalk of the cocoa-nut, and which are 
guarded by a soft substance which may 
easily be pierced. I pronounced the word 
<i>halt</i>, and bade them bring me a saw; the 
thought struck me, that by dividing the nuts 
carefully with this instrument, the two 
halves when emptied, would remain with the 
form of some well looking tea-cups or basons 
already made to our hands. Jack, who was on 
every occasion the most active, brought me 
a saw. I performed my undertaking in the 
best manner I could, and in a short time 
each of us was provided with a convenient 
receptacle for food. Accordingly my wife 
put the share of soup which belonged to 
each, into those basons or vessels. The 
excellent creature appeared delighted that we 
should no longer be under the necessity, as 
before, of scalding our fingers by dipping 
into the pot; and I firmly believe, that never 
did the most magnificent service of china 
occasion half the pleasure to its possessor, as 
our utensils, manufactured by our own 
hands from gourds and cocoa-nuts, excited 
in the kind heart of my wife. Fritz asked 
me if he might not invite our company to 
taste his fine champain, which he said 
would not fail to make us all the merrier.</p>

<p>I have not the least objection, answered I, 
but remember to taste it yourself, before you 
serve it to your guests.</p>

<p>He ran to draw out the stopple and to 
taste it.......How unfortunate! said he, it is 
already turned to vinegar.</p>

<p>What is it? vinegar, did you say? 
exclaimed my wife. How lucky! it will make 
the most delicious sauce for our bird, mixed 
with the fat which has fallen from it in 
roasting, and will be as good a relish as a 
salad. No sooner said than done. This 
vinegar produced from cocoa-nut proved a most 
agreeable corrective of the wild and fishy 
flavour of the penguin, and without which I 
am afraid we should have found it not very 
palatable. The same sauce considerably 
improved our dish of fish also. Each boasted 
most of what he himself had been the means 
of procuring; it was Jack and Francis who 
had caught the fish in one of the shallows, 
while Ernest was employed with very little 
trouble to himself in securing his penguin 
<i>the stupid</i>. My poor wife had herself 
performed the most difficult task of all, that of 
rolling the cask of Dutch cheeses into the 
kitchen, and then knocking out its head. 
But if it was she who had most exerted 
herself, it was she also who received the 
highest commendations; for one and all 
agreed, that nothing we had tasted since we 
left the ship, was half so agreeable to our 
appetites as this cheese which she served for 
our dessert.</p>

<p>By the time we had finished our meal, the 
sun was retiring from our view; and 
recollecting how quickly the night would fall 
upon us, we were in the greatest haste to 
regain our place of rest. My wife had 
considerately procured for us a tenfold quantity 
of dry grass, which she had spread in the 
tent, so that we anticipated with joy the 
prospect which was now afforded, of stretching 
our limbs on a substance somewhat 
approaching to the quality of mattresses, while, the 
night before, our bodies seemed to touch the 
ground. Our whole flock of fowls placed 
themselves as they had done the preceding 
evening; we said our prayers, and, with an 
improved serenity of mind, lay down in the 
tent, taking the young monkey with us, who 
was become the little favourite of all. Fritz 
and Jack contended for a short time which 
should enjoy the honour of his company for 
the night; and it was at last decided that he 
should be laid between them; after which, 
each would have a hand in covering him 
carefully, that he might not catch cold. We 
now all lay down upon the grass, in the 
order of the night before, myself remaining 
last to fasten the sail-cloth in front of the 
tent; when heartily fatigued by the exertions 
of the day, I as well as the rest soon fell into 
a profound and refreshing sleep.</p>

<p>But I had not long enjoyed this pleasing 
state, when I was awakened by the motion of 
the fowls on the ridge of the tent, and by 
a violent barking of our vigilant safeguards, 
the dogs. I rushed out instantly; my wife 
and Fritz, who had also been alarmed by the 
noise, followed my example: we each took 
a gun, and sallied forth to their assistance. 
Shall you, my dearest, have the courage to 
fire, if it should be necessary? said I to my 
wife.</p>

<p>Most certainly, said she, if, as you say, it 
should be necessary. I can depend upon 
myself for daring to do whatever can be the 
means of preservation to our dear children. 
At the same time it would perhaps be better 
that I should leave to you the task of firing, 
while I can undertake to load your guns, 
and to hand them to you as fast as you may 
want them.</p>

<p>Best of all, said I; so let us not lose a 
moment in examining what enemy it is we 
have to deal with. Our dogs continued 
barking with the same violence, and at 
intervals even howled. We had not 
proceeded many steps from the tent, when, to 
our great astonishment, we perceived by the 
light of the moon a terrible combat. At 
least a dozen of jackalls had surrounded our 
brave dogs, who defended themselves with 
an almost unexampled courage. Already 
the fierce champions had laid three or four 
of their adversaries on the ground, while 
those which remained began to make a timid 
kind of noise, as if imploring pity and 
forbearance. Meanwhile they did not the less 
endeavour to entangle and surprise the dogs, 
when thrown off their guard, and thus 
secure themselves the advantage. But our 
watchful combatants were not so easily to be 
deceived; they took good care not to let 
the enemy approach them too nearly.</p>

<p>I, for my part, apprehended something 
much worse than jackalls. We shall soon 
manage to set these gentlemen at rest, said I. 
Let us fire both together, my boy; but let 
us take care how we aim, for fear of killing 
the dogs; your mother shall give us the 
word of command; mind how you fire, 
that you may not miss, and I shall do the 
same. We fired, and two of the intruders 
fell instantly dead upon the sands. The others 
made their escape; but we perceived it was 
with great difficulty, in consequence, no 
doubt, of being wounded. Turk and Ponto 
afterwards pursued them, and put the 
finishing stroke to what we had begun; and thus 
the battle ended: but the dogs, true Caribees 
by nature, made a hearty meal on the flesh of 
their fallen enemies. Their doing this was a 
proof of the keen hunger they experienced; 
for dogs do not readily feed on foxes, and 
the jackall is a more fierce and mischievous 
species of the fox, than the animal known 
by that name in Europe. My wife, seeing 
that all was now quiet, entreated us to lie 
down again and finish our night’s sleep; but 
Fritz asked my permission to let him first 
drag the jackall he had killed, towards the 
tent, that he might be able to exhibit him 
the next morning to his brothers. Having 
obtained my consent, he ran to fetch him, 
and, with great difficulty, succeeded in his 
plan, the animal being of the size of a large 
dog. I however observed to Fritz, that if 
Turk and Ponto were still hungry, we ought 
to give them this last jackall in addition, 
as a recompense for their courageous 
behaviour.</p>

<p>We had now done with this affair. The 
body of the jackall was left on the rock, by 
the side of the tent, in which were the little 
sleepers, who had not once awaked during 
the whole of the scene which had been 
passing. Having therefore nothing further 
to prevent us, we lay down by their side till 
day began to break, and till the cocks, with 
their shrill morning salutation, awoke us 
both. The children being still asleep, 
afforded us an excellent opportunity to consult 
together respecting the plan we should 
pursue for the ensuing day.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap05" id="chap05" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER V.<br/>
<small><em>Return to the wreck.</em></small></h2>

<p><span class="smcap">I broke</span> a silence of some moments, with 
observing to my wife, that I could not 
conquer my alarm at the view of so many cares 
and such a variety of exertions to be made! 
In the first place, a journey to the vessel. 
This is of absolute necessity; at least, if 
we would not be deprived of the cattle and 
various other useful things, all of which 
from moment to moment we ran the risk of 
losing, by the first approach of a heavy sea. 
On the other hand, there are so many things 
to think of, and so much exertion is to be 
made, for the comfort of all in this desert 
spot! What ought we to resolve upon? For 
example,—is it not, above all, necessary to 
contrive a better kind of habitation, and also 
the means of procuring a more secure retreat 
from wild beasts, for ourselves, and some 
separate place of accommodation for our 
provisions? I own I am at a loss what to 
begin upon first.</p>

<p>All will fall into the right order by 
degrees, observed my wife; patience and 
regularity in our plans will go as far as actual 
labour. I cannot, I confess, help 
shuddering at the thought of this voyage to the 
vessel; but if you judge it to be of absolute 
necessity, it appears to me that it cannot be 
undertaken too soon. In the mean while, 
nothing that is immediately under my own 
care shall stand still, I promise you. Let us 
not be over anxious about the morrow; 
sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. These 
were the words of the great and true friend 
of mankind, and let us use so wise a counsel 
for our own benefit.</p>

<p>I will follow your advice, said I, and 
without further loss of time. You shall stay 
here with the three youngest boys; and 
Fritz, being so much stronger and more 
intelligent than the others, shall accompany 
me in the undertaking.</p>

<p>At this moment I started from my bed, 
crying out loudly and briskly: Get up, children, 
get up; it is almost light, and we 
have some important projects for today; it 
would be a shame to suffer the sun to find 
us still sleeping, we who are to be the 
founders of a new colony!</p>

<p>At these words Fritz sprang nimbly out 
of the tent, while his little brothers began to 
gape and rub their eyes, to get rid of their 
sleepiness. Fritz ran to visit his jackall, 
which during the night had become cold and 
perfectly stiff. He fixed him upon his legs, 
and placed him to look like a sentinel at the 
entrance of the tent, joyously expecting the 
wonder and exclamations of his little brothers 
at so singular and unexpected an appearance. 
But no sooner had the dogs caught a sight 
of him, than they began a horrible barking, 
and set themselves in motion to fall upon 
him instantly, thinking he was alive. Fritz 
had enough to do to restrain them, and 
succeeded only by dint of coaxing and 
perseverance.</p>

<p>In the mean time, their barking had 
awaked the younger boys, and they all ran 
out of the tent, curious to know what could 
be the occasion. Jack was the first who 
appeared, with the young monkey on his 
shoulders; but when the little creature 
perceived the jackall, he sprang away in terror, 
and hid himself at the furthest extremity of 
the grass which composed our bed; with 
which he covered himself so completely, 
that scarcely could the tip of his nose be 
seen.</p>

<p>The children were much surprised at the 
sight of a yellow-coloured animal standing 
without motion at the entrance of the tent. 
O heavens! exclaimed Francis, and stepping 
back a few paces for fear; it is a wolf! No, 
no, said Jack, going near the jackall and 
taking one of his paws; it is a yellow dog, 
and he is dead; he does not move at all. 
It is neither a dog nor a wolf, interrupted 
Ernest in a consequential tone; do you not 
see that it is a <i>golden</i> fox? Best of all, most 
learned professor! now exclaimed Fritz. 
So you can tell an agouti, when you see him, 
but you cannot tell a jackall; for jackall is 
the creature you see before you, and I killed 
him myself in the night!</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—In the night, you say, Fritz! 
In your sleep, I suppose.....</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—No, Mr. Ernest; not in my sleep, 
as you so good-naturedly suppose, but broad 
awake, and on the watch to protect you from 
wild beasts! But I cannot wonder at this 
mistake in one who does not know the 
difference between a jackall and a <i>golden</i> fox!</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—You would not have known it 
either, if papa had not told you.....</p>

<p>Come, come, my lads, I will have no 
disputes, said I. Fritz, you are to blame 
in ridiculing your brother for the mistake he 
made. Ernest, you are also to blame for 
indulging that little peevishness of yours. 
But as to the animal, you all are right and 
all are wrong; for he partakes at once of 
the nature of the dog, the wolf, and the fox; 
and for his skin, it is really of a golden tint! 
The boys in an instant became friends; 
and then followed questions, answers, and 
wonder in abundance.</p>

<p>And now, my boys, let me remind you, 
that he who begins the day without first 
addressing the Almighty, ought to expect 
neither success nor safety in his 
undertakings. Let us therefore acquit ourselves of 
this duty before we engage in any other 
occupation. Having finished our prayers, the 
next thing thought of was breakfast; for 
the appetites of young boys open with their 
eyes. Today their mother had nothing to 
give them for their morning meal but some 
biscuit, which was so hard and dry, that it 
was with difficulty we could swallow it. 
Fritz asked for a piece of cheese to eat with 
it, and Ernest spied about the second cask 
we had drawn out of the sea, and which 
was standing in our kitchen, to discover 
whether, as we had all imagined, it also 
contained some Dutch cheeses. In a minute 
or two he came up to us, joy sparkling in 
his eyes. Papa, said he, if we had but a 
little butter spread upon our biscuit, do you 
not think it would improve it?</p>

<p>That indeed it would; but—<i>if</i>,—<i>if</i>; these 
never-ending <i>ifs</i> are but a poor dependence. 
For my part, I had rather eat a bit of cheese 
with my biscuit at once, than think of <i>ifs</i>, 
which bring us so meagre a harvest.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—Perhaps though, the <i>ifs</i> may be 
found to be worth something, if we were to 
knock out the head of this cask.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—What cask, my boy? and what 
are you talking of?</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—I am talking of this cask, which 
is filled with excellent salt butter. I made a 
little opening in it with a knife; and see, 
I got out enough of it to spread nicely upon 
this piece of biscuit.</p>

<p>That glutton instinct of yours for once is 
of some general use, answered I; and justice 
requires that I should also commend, with 
moderation, the excellence of your nose. But 
now let us profit by the event. Who will 
have some butter on their biscuits? The boys 
surrounded the cask in a moment, while I 
was in some perplexity as to the safest and 
most speedy method of getting out its 
contents. Fritz proposed taking off the topmost 
hoop, by which means one of the ends could 
be got out. But this I objected to, observing, 
that we should be careful not to loosen the 
staves, as the great heat of the sun would 
not fail to melt the butter, which would run 
out, and thus be wasted. The idea occurred 
to me, that I would make a hole in the 
bottom of the cask, sufficiently large to take 
out a small quantity of butter at a time; and 
I immediately set about manufacturing a 
little wooden shovel, to use it for the 
purpose. All this succeeded vastly well, and 
we sat down to breakfast, some biscuits and 
a cocoa-nut shell full of salt butter being 
placed upon the ground, round which we 
all assembled, and none of us failing from 
time to time to wish for a fairy’s wand, to 
have enabled us to add a little milk from the 
cow, or from some cocoa-nuts, to quench 
our thirst. We however toasted our biscuit, 
and while it was hot applied the butter, and 
contrived, without the fairy’s wand, to make 
a hearty breakfast.</p>

<p>Our dogs allowed us to finish our meal in 
tranquillity. They were sleeping by our 
side; but I did not fail to remark, that their 
late encounter with the jackalls had not 
concluded without their receiving several 
wounds, which I now, for the first time, 
observed in various parts of their body, and 
principally round their necks. Fearing that 
the heat might bring on inflammation, I 
desired Jack, the valiant, to wash a small 
quantity of the butter thoroughly in fresh water, 
and then to anoint the wounds with it while 
they continued sleeping. This he effected 
with much skill and tenderness. The dogs 
awoke, but did not attempt the least 
resistance, seeming to be sensible of the benefit 
he was conferring on them; they themselves 
assisted the cure, by frequently licking the 
parts; so that in a few days they were as 
well as before.</p>

<p>One of the things we must not forget to 
look for in the vessel, said Fritz, is a spiked 
collar or two for our dogs, as a protection to 
them, should they again be called upon to 
defend themselves from wild beasts, which I 
fear it is too probable will be the case.</p>

<p>Oh! says Jack, I can make some spiked 
collars, if mamma will give me a little help.</p>

<p>That I will most readily, my boy; for I 
should like to see what new fancy has come 
into your head, cried mamma.</p>

<p>Yes, yes, pursued I, as many new 
inventions as you please; you cannot better employ 
your time; and if you produce something 
useful, you will be rewarded with the honour 
of our commendations. But now we must 
think of setting ourselves to some 
occupation. You, Mr. Fritz, who, from your 
superior age and discretion, enjoy the high 
honour of being my privy counsellor, must 
make haste and get yourself ready, and we 
will undertake today our voyage to the 
vessel, to save and bring away whatever may be 
possible. You younger boys will remain 
here, under the wing of your kind mother; 
I hope I need not mention that I rely on 
your perfect obedience to her will, and 
general good behaviour.</p>

<p>While Fritz was getting the boat ready, 
I looked about for a pole, and put a piece 
of white linen to the end of it; this I drove 
into the ground, in a place where it would 
be visible from the vessel; and I concerted 
with my wife, that in case of any accident 
that should require my immediate presence, 
they should take down the pole and fire a 
gun three times as a signal of distress, in 
consequence of which I would immediately 
return. But I gave her notice, that there 
being so many things to accomplish on 
board the vessel, it was very probable that 
we should not be able to return the same 
day; in which case I, on my part, also 
promised to make them signals. My wife 
had the courage and the good sense to 
consent to my plan. Though she was well aware 
that it could not but be dangerous to pass a 
night alone with the children, without my 
protection, she yet preferred the risk, to that 
of my returning late from the vessel. She, 
however, extorted from me a promise that 
we should pass the night in our tubs, and 
not on board the ship. We took nothing 
with us but our guns and a recruit of powder 
and shot, relying that we should find plenty 
of provisions on board; yet I did not refuse 
to indulge Fritz in the wish he expressed to 
let him take the young monkey, he feeling 
the most eager impatience to see how the 
young creature would like some milk from 
the cow or from a goat.</p>

<p>We embarked in silence, casting our 
anxious looks on the beloved objects we 
were quitting. Fritz rowed steadily, and I 
did my best to second his endeavours, by 
rowing from time to time, on my part, with 
the oar which served me for a rudder. When 
we had reached to a considerable distance, I 
remarked, that beside the opening by which 
we had the first time made land, there was 
another that formed the mouth of the river, 
running not far from that spot, and the 
current of which was visible a good way into 
the sea.</p>

<p>To take advantage of this current, and to 
husband our strength by means of it, was my 
first thought and my first care. Little as I 
knew of the management of sea affairs, I 
however succeeded in keeping our boat 
in the direction in which it ran, by which 
means we were drawn gently on, till it had 
conducted us to within a short distance of the 
vessel, without our having any other trouble 
than that of keeping in the same line: at 
length, in consequence of the gradual 
diminution of its force, we were again obliged 
to have recourse to our oars; but our arms 
having now rested for some time, we were 
ready for new exertions. A little afterwards 
we found ourselves safely arrived at the cleft 
of the vessel, and fastened our boat securely 
to one of its timbers.</p>

<p>Scarcely had we got out of the boat than 
Fritz proceeded with his young monkey on 
his arm to the main deck, where he found 
all the animals we had left on board 
assembled. I followed him with great 
readiness, well pleased to observe the generous 
impatience he betrayed, to relieve the wants 
of the poor abandoned creatures, who, one 
and all, now saluted us by the cry or the 
sounds natural to its species! It was not so 
much the want of food, as the desire of 
seeing once more their accustomed human 
companions, which occasioned them to manifest 
their joy in this manner, for they had a 
portion of the food and water we had left them, 
still remaining. The first thing we did was 
to put the young monkey to one of the goats, 
that he might suck; and this he did with 
such evident pleasure, and such odd grimaces, 
that he afforded us much amusement.—We 
next examined the food and water of 
the other animals, taking away what was half 
spoiled, and adding a fresh supply, that 
no anxiety on their account might 
afterwards interrupt our enterprise. Nor did we 
neglect the care of renewing our own 
strength by a plentiful repast.</p>

<p>While we were seated, and appeasing the 
calls of hunger, Fritz and I consulted what 
should be our first occupation; when, to my 
great surprise, the advice he gave was, that 
we should immediately contrive a sail for our 
boat. In the name of Heaven, cried I, what 
makes you think of such a thing at so 
critical a moment, and when we have so many 
other things of indispensable necessity to 
arrange? We will think of a sail when we 
have leisure, with all my heart, for it is an 
affair which will take a considerable time to 
accomplish. In reality, I experienced great 
uneasiness at the thought of passing the 
night at a distance from my family.</p>

<p>All you say is very true, father, said Fritz; 
but let me confess the truth, which is, that I 
found it very difficult to perform the task of 
rowing for so long a time, though I assure 
you I did my best, and did not spare my 
strength. I observed that, though the wind 
blew strong in my face, the current 
nevertheless carried us on. Now, as we cannot be 
benefited on our return by the current, I was 
thinking that we might make the wind supply 
its place. Our boat will be very heavy when 
we have loaded it with all the useful things 
we mean to take away, and I am afraid I 
shall not be strong enough to row to land. 
Now do you not think that a sail would be 
of great assistance?</p>

<p>Ah ha, Mr. Fritz! So you wish to spare 
yourself a little trouble, do you? But to 
speak seriously, I perceive a great deal of 
good sense in your argument, and think myself 
much obliged to my privy counsellor for 
his good advice. The best thing we can do 
is, to take care and not overload the boat, 
and thus avoid the danger of sinking, or of 
being obliged to throw some of our stores 
over-board. Come then, let us set to work 
upon your sail, which, if it saves your labour 
in rowing, will be at least a little troublesome 
at present. Come along, and let us look 
about for what we want.</p>

<p>I assisted Fritz to carry a pole strong 
enough to serve for a mast, and another not 
so thick for a sail-yard. I directed him to 
make a hole in a plank with a chisel, large 
enough for the mast to stand upright in it.</p>

<p>I then went to the sail-chamber, and cut off 
from an ample piece of sail-cloth enough to 
make a triangular sail: in the edges I made 
holes, and passed cords through them. I then 
sought for a pulley, that I might fasten it to 
the top of the mast, and thus be enabled to 
raise and lower my sail at pleasure. Thus 
prepared, I hastened to join Fritz, who was 
earnestly working at the mast. As soon as 
he had done, we placed the plank that he 
had perforated, upon the fourth of our tubs, 
and made it fast. The pulley was suspended 
from a ring at the top of the mast, and the 
cord, attached to the sharpest angle of the 
sail, was passed through it. The sail formed 
a right-angle triangle, one side of which 
touched the mast, and was fastened to it. 
The shortest side was also fastened with 
cords to a pole, stretching from the mast 
beyond the circumference of our bark, and of 
which one end was fastened to the mast, and 
the other, by means of a cord, to the helm, 
in such a manner that I could, from my 
position, either weather the sail, or let it go 
altogether. In the foremost and hindmost 
bench of our little bark, we made holes with 
a piercer, and passed cords through them, by 
means of which we could pass the sail from 
the right to the left side of us, and back 
again, without being obliged to turn the boat 
entirely round. </p>

<p>While I was thus occupied, Fritz had been 
taking observations through a telescope of 
what was passing on land, and which we had 
already done several times. He imparted 
the agreeable tidings that all was still well 
with our dear family. He had distinguished 
his mother walking tranquilly along the shore. 
He soon after brought me a small streamer, 
which he had cut from a piece of linen, and 
which he entreated me to tie to the extremity 
of the mast, and he appeared as much 
delighted with the streamer as with the sail 
itself. He gave to our machine the name 
of <i>The Deliverance</i>; and in speaking of it, 
instead of calling it a <i>boat</i>, it was now always 
denominated <i>the little vessel</i>. I could not 
withhold a smile at vanity like this, in such a 
situation as ours; it gave me too an 
opportunity of observing the operation of this 
prominent feature of human nature, in a lad of 
fourteen years of age. I myself took great 
pleasure in seeing the little streamer floating 
in the air, and in the respectable appearance 
of our machine altogether.</p>

<p>But now, father, said Fritz, looking kindly 
on me as he spoke, as you have eased me of 
the labour of rowing, it is my turn to take 
care of you. I am thinking about making 
you a better-contrived rudder; one that would 
enable you to steer the boat both with greater 
ease and greater safety. Your thought would 
be a very good one, said I, but that I am 
unwilling to lose the advantage of being able 
to proceed this way and that, without being 
obliged to veer. I shall therefore fix our 
oars in such a manner as to enable me to 
steer the raft from either end. Accordingly, 
I fixed bits of wood to the stem and stern of 
the vessel, in the nature of grooves, which 
were calculated to spare us a great deal of 
trouble.</p>

<p>During these exertions the day became far 
advanced, and I perceived that we should be 
obliged to pass the night in our tubs, not 
having as yet entered upon our task of 
emptying the vessel. We had promised our 
family to hoist a flag as a signal of our 
intention to pass the night from home, and we 
decided that our streamer was precisely the 
thing we wanted for this purpose.</p>

<p>We employed the rest of the day in 
emptying the tubs of the useless ballast of stone, 
and putting in their place what would be of 
service, such as nails, pieces of cloth, and 
different kinds of utensils, <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr> <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr> The 
Vandals themselves could not have made a 
more complete pillage than we had done. 
The prospect we seemed to have of an entire 
solitude, made us devote our principal 
attention to the securing as much powder and shot 
as might fall in our way, that we might thus 
secure the means of catching animals for 
food, and of defending ourselves against 
wild beasts to the latest moment possible. 
Utensils also for every kind of 
workmanship, of which there was a large provision in 
the ship, were also objects of incalculable 
value to us. The vessel, which was now a 
wreck, had been sent out as a preparation 
for the establishment of a colony in the 
South Seas, and for that reason had been 
provided with a variety of stores not 
commonly included in the loading of a ship. 
Among the rest, care had been taken to 
have on board considerable numbers of 
European cattle; but so long a voyage had 
proved unfavourable to the oxen and the 
horses, the greatest part of which had died, 
and the others were in so bad a condition that 
it had been found necessary to destroy them. 
The quantity of useful things which 
presented themselves in the store-chambers, 
made it difficult for me to select among them, 
and I much regretted that circumstances 
compelled me to leave some of them behind. 
Fritz, however, already meditated a second 
visit; but we took good care not to lose 
the present occasion for securing knives 
and forks and spoons, and a complete 
assortment of kitchen utensils. In the 
captain’s cabin we found some services of silver, 
dishes and plates of high-wrought metal, 
and a little chest filled with bottles of all 
sorts of excellent wine. Each of these 
articles we put into our boat. We next 
descended to the kitchen, which we stripped of 
gridirons, kettles, pots of all kinds, a small 
roasting-jack, <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr> Our last prize was a 
chest of choice eatables, intended for the 
table of the officers, containing Westphalia 
hams, Bologna sausages, and other savoury 
food. I took good care not to forget some 
little sacks of maize, of wheat, and other 
grain, and some potatoes. We next added 
such implements for husbandry as we could 
find;—shovels, hoes, spades, rakes, harrows, 
<abbr>&amp;c.</abbr> <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr> Fritz reminded me that we had 
found sleeping on the ground both cold and 
hard, and prevailed upon me to increase our 
cargo by some hammocks, and a certain 
number of blankets: and as guns had 
hitherto been the source of his pleasures, he added 
such as he could find of a particular 
costliness or structure, together with some sabres 
and clasp knives. The last articles we took, 
were a barrel of sulphur, a quantity of ropes, 
some small string, and a large roll of sail-cloth. 
The vessel appeared to us to be in so 
wretched a condition, that the coming on of 
the least tempest must make her go to pieces.</p>

<p>It was then quite uncertain whether we should 
be able to approach her any more.</p>

<p>Our cargo was so considerable, that the 
tubs were filled to the very brim, and no 
inch of the boat’s room was lost. The first 
and last of the tubs were reserved for Fritz 
and me to seat ourselves in and row the boat, 
which sunk so low in the water, that, if the 
sea had been otherwise than quite calm, we 
should have been obliged to ease her of some 
of the loading: we, however, used the 
precaution of putting on our swimming-jackets, 
for fear of any misfortune.</p>

<p>It will easily be imagined that every 
moment of the day had been laboriously 
employed. Night suddenly surprised us, and 
it was no longer possible to form a hope of 
returning to our family the same evening. 
A large blazing fire on the shore soon after 
greeted our sight,—the signal we had agreed 
upon for assuring us that all was well, and 
to bid us close our eyes in peace. We 
returned the compliment by tying four lanterns 
with lights in them to our mast-head. 
This was answered on their part, according 
to agreement, by the firing of two guns; so 
that both parties had reason to be satisfied 
and easy.</p>

<p>After offering up our earnest prayers for 
the safety and happiness of all, yet not 
without some apprehension for the night, we 
resigned ourselves to sleep in our tubs, which, 
it must be confessed, did not afford us a very 
enviable place of rest: they were, however, 
safer than the vessel, and more convenient 
for guarding our heavily loaded machine. 
At the least cracking of the vessel, we might 
cut the rope in an instant, and get out to sea. 
Our night, thank God, passed tranquilly 
enough: my boy Fritz slept as soundly as 
if he had been in a bed; while I, 
notwithstanding my fatigue, could neither close my 
eyes, nor keep them from the direction of 
the shore, perpetually haunted by the 
recollection of the nocturnal visit of the jackalls, 
some of whose race I feared might come and 
enter the tent. I had, however, great 
reliance that my valiant dogs would do their 
duty, and was thankful to Heaven for having 
enabled us to preserve so good a 
protection.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap06" id="chap06" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER VI.<br/>
<small><em>A troop of animals in cork jackets.</em></small></h2>

<p><span class="smcap">Early</span> the next morning, though it was 
scarcely light enough to distinguish the 
coast, I was already on the deck of the 
vessel, endeavouring to have a sight of the 
beloved inhabitants of the tent through a spying-glass. 
Fritz speedily prepared a good 
substantial breakfast of biscuit and ham; but 
before we sat down to this refreshment, we 
recollected that in the captain’s cabin we 
had seen a telescope of a much superior size 
and power, and we hastily conveyed it upon 
the deck. While this was doing, the 
brightness of the day had succeeded to the imperfect 
light of an earlier hour. I eagerly fixed my 
eye to the glass, and discovered my wife 
coming out of the tent and looking attentively 
towards the vessel, and we at the same 
moment perceived the motion of the flag 
upon the shore. A load of care and 
solicitude was thus taken from my heart; for now 
I had obtained the certainty that the beloved 
beings I had left were all in good health, 
and had escaped the dangers of the night. 
Fritz, said I to my boy, I thought this 
morning that it would be impossible for me to 
remain another moment on board the vessel, 
without returning to see what was passing in 
the island; but now that I have had a sight 
of your mother, and an assurance of their 
being well and safe, my compassion is 
awakened for the poor creatures on board, 
who are in so wretched a condition, and every 
hour in danger of destruction: a great 
object of my anxiety now, is to endeavour to 
save the lives of some of them at least, and 
to take them with us to the shore.</p>

<p>Would it be impossible to construct a raft, 
to get them all upon it, and in this way 
afford them a conveyance? said Fritz.</p>

<p>But recollect, my boy, what a difficulty we 
should find in completing such a raft, and 
that a greater still would be to induce a cow, 
an ass, and a sow, either to get upon a 
raft, or, when there, to remain motionless and 
quiet. The sheep and goats one might 
perhaps find means to remove, they being of a 
more accommodating temper; but for the 
larger animals, I am quite at a loss how to 
proceed. Do you consider of it, and tell me 
what thoughts occur to your young and 
active imagination.</p>

<p>My advice, father, is, to tie a long rope 
round the sow’s neck, and throw her without 
ceremony into the sea: her immense weight 
will be sure to sustain her above water; and 
we can easily get hold of the other end of the 
rope and draw her after the boat.</p>

<p>Your idea is excellent, my boy: but 
unfortunately it cannot be applied to any of 
the animals except the pig; and I confess, 
she is the one I care the least about 
preserving.</p>

<p>Then here is another idea, father: let us tie 
a swimming-jacket round the body of each 
animal, and contrive to throw them into the 
water; you will see that they will swim like 
fish, and we can draw them after us in the 
same manner.</p>

<p>Right, very right, my boy; your invention 
is admirable: let us therefore not lose a 
moment in making the experiment.</p>

<p>We accordingly hastened to the execution 
of our design: we fixed on a jacket to one 
of the lambs, and threw it into the sea; and 
full of fear, of hope, and anxious curiosity, I 
followed the poor animal with my eyes. He 
sunk at first under water, and I thought he 
was drowned; but he soon re-appeared, 
shaking the water from his head, and in a few 
seconds we perceived that he had learned 
completely the art of swimming. After 
another interval, we observed that he 
appeared fatigued, gave up his efforts, and 
suffered himself without resistance to be borne 
along by the course of the water, which 
conducted and sustained him to our complete 
satisfaction. Victory! exclaimed I, hugging my 
boy with delight: these useful animals are all 
our own; let us not lose a moment in adopting 
the same measures with those that remain, 
but take care not to lose our little lamb. 
Fritz now would have jumped eagerly into 
the water to follow the poor creature, who 
was still floating safely on the surface; but 
I stopped him till I had seen him tie on one 
of the swimming-jackets, and then I suffered 
him to go. He took with him a rope, first 
making a slip knot in it, and, soon overtaking 
the lamb, threw it round his neck, and thus 
drew him to our boat; and then, to his great 
content, drew him out of the water.</p>

<p>We then went and looked out four small 
casks, such as had been used for keeping the 
fresh water for the vessel. I first emptied them 
of their contents, and then carefully closed 
them again; next I bound them together 
with a large piece of sail-cloth, the two ends 
of which I nailed to each. I strengthened 
this with a second piece of sail-cloth, and 
this machine I destined to support the cow and 
the ass, two casks to each, the animal being 
placed in the middle with a cask on either 
side. The weight of the animal pressed down 
the sail-cloth, and would have brought the 
casks into close contact on each side, but that 
I took care to insert a wisp of hay or straw, 
to prevent injurious friction or pressure. I 
added a thong of leather, stretching from the 
casks across the breast and haunches of the 
animal, to make the whole secure; and thus, 
in less than an hour, both my cow and my 
ass were equipped for swimming.</p>

<p>It was next the turn of the smaller 
animals: of these, it was the sow who gave us 
the most trouble; we were first obliged to 
put her on a muzzle to prevent her biting; and 
this being done, we tied a large piece of cork 
under her body. The sheep and goats were 
more docile, and we had soon accoutred them 
for the expedition. And now we had succeeded 
in assembling our whole company on 
the deck, in readiness for the voyage: we 
tied a cord to either the horns or the neck 
of each animal, and to the other end of the 
cord a piece of wood similar to the mode used 
for marking nets, that it might be easy for 
us to take hold of the ropes, and so draw the 
animal to us if it should be necessary. We 
struck away some more of the shattered 
pieces of wood from the side of the vessel, 
which only served to encumber the cleft by 
which we had entered, and were again to pass 
to put out to sea, when we should have 
completed our last work of throwing the 
animals into it. We began our experiment 
with the ass, by conducting him as near as 
possible to the brink of the vessel, and then 
suddenly shoving him off. He fell into the 
water, and for a moment disappeared; but 
we soon saw him rise, and in the action of 
swimming between his two barrels, with a 
grace which really merited our commendation. </p>

<p>Next came the cow’s turn; and as she was 
infinitely more valuable than the ass, my 
fears increased in due proportion. The ass 
had swum so courageously, that he was 
already at a considerable distance from the 
vessel, so that there was sufficient room for 
our experiment on the cow. We had more 
difficulty in pushing her overboard, but she 
reached the water in as much safety as the 
ass had done before; she did not sink 
so low in it, and was no less perfectly 
sustained by the empty barrels; and she made 
her way on the surface with gravity, and, 
if I may so express it, a sort of dignified 
composure. According to this method we 
proceeded with our whole troop, throwing 
them one by one into the water, where by 
and by they appeared in a group floating at 
their ease, and seemingly well content, at a 
short distance from the vessel. The sow was 
the only exception; she became quite 
furious, set up a loud squalling, and struggled 
with so much violence in the water, that she 
was carried to a considerable distance, but 
fortunately in a direction towards the 
landing-place we had in view for ourselves. We 
had now not a moment to lose; our last 
act was to put on our cork-jackets; and then 
we descended without accident through the 
cleft, took our station in the boat, and were 
soon out to sea, surrounded by our troop of 
quadrupeds. We carefully took up from 
the water, each of the floating bits of wood 
which we had fastened to the ropes round 
the animals, and thus drew them all after us 
by fastening the bits of timber to the boat. 
When every thing was adjusted, and our 
company in order, we hoisted our sail, which 
soon filling with a favourable wind 
conducted us and our escort safe to the land.</p>

<p>We now perceived how impossible it 
would have been for us to have executed our 
enterprise without the assistance of the sail; 
for the weight of so many animals sunk the 
boat so low in the water, that all our 
exertions to row to such a distance would have 
been ineffectual; while by means of the sail, 
and the improvement I had invented for 
the steering, she proceeded completely to 
our satisfaction, bearing in her train our suite 
of animals; which produced altogether the 
most singular effect. Proud of the success 
of so extraordinary an enterprise, we were in 
high spirits, and seated ourselves in the tubs, 
where we made an excellent dinner. Fritz 
amused himself with the monkey, while I 
was wholly occupied in thinking of those I 
had left on land, and of whom I now tried to 
take a view through my telescope. My last 
act on board the vessel had been to take one 
look more at them, and I perceived my wife 
and the three boys all in motion, and seeming 
to be setting out on some excursion; but it was 
in vain that I endeavoured, by any thing I 
saw, to conjecture what their plan might be.</p>

<p>I therefore seized the first moment of quiet 
to make another trial with my glass, when a 
sudden exclamation from Fritz filled me 
with alarm. O heavens! cried he, we are 
lost! a fish of an enormous size is coming 
up to the boat. And why lost? said I half 
angry, yet half partaking of his fright. Be 
ready with your gun in an instant, and the 
moment he is close upon us, let us both fire 
upon him at the same instant. Our guns 
were each loaded with two balls, and we got 
up from our tubs to give the intruder a hearty 
reception. He had nearly reached the 
boat, and with the rapidity of lightning had 
seized the foremost sheep: at this instant 
Fritz aimed his fire so skilfully, that the 
balls were lodged in the head of the monster, 
which was an enormous shark. The fish 
half turned himself round in the water and 
hurried off to sea, leaving us to observe the 
lustrous smoothness of his belly, and that as 
he proceeded, he stained the water red, which 
convinced us he had been severely wounded. 
I determined to have the best of our guns 
at hand the rest of the way, lest we should 
be again attacked by the same fish, or another 
of his species.</p>

<p>Fritz had great reason to be proud of the 
achievement of having forced the shark to 
retreat; whilst I on my part rather felt 
surprise; for I had always understood that this 
kind of sea-monster was not easily to be 
frightened from his purpose, and also that 
the heaviest load of shot was rarely known 
to do him any injury, the creature being 
extremely voracious of his prey, and his skin 
so hard, as to present an extraordinary 
degree of resistance to all attempts of this kind. 
For this time, however, the animal left us 
in tranquillity; I resumed the rudder; and 
as the wind drove us straight towards the 
bay, I took down the sail, and continued 
rowing till we reached a convenient spot for 
our cattle to land. I then untied the end of 
the cords, which had been fastened to the 
boat, and they stepped contentedly on shore. 
Our voyage thus happily concluded, we 
followed their example.</p>

<p>I had already been surprised and uneasy 
at finding none of my family looking out 
for us on the shore, and was at a loss to 
conjecture in what they could be occupied 
to prevent them: we could not, however, set 
out in search of them, till we had disencumbered 
our animals of their swimming 
apparatus. Scarcely had we entered upon this 
employment, when I was agreeably relieved 
by the exclamations and joyful sounds which 
reached our ears, and filled our hearts with 
rapture. It was my wife and the youngest 
boys who uttered them, the latter of whom 
were soon close up to us, and their mother 
followed not many steps behind; each and 
all of them in excellent health, and eager 
for our salutations. When the first burst 
of happiness at meeting had subsided, 
we all sat down on the grass, and I began to 
give them an account of our occupations in 
the vessel, of our voyage, and of all our 
different plans, and their success, in the order in 
which they occurred. My wife could find 
no words to express her surprise and 
satisfaction at seeing so many useful animals 
round us, and her language respecting them 
had such a vein of affectionate simplicity, as 
greatly to increase the gratification it could 
not otherwise but inspire. I had been 
ransacking my poor brains, said she, every 
moment of your absence, to conceive some 
means by which you might succeed in 
protecting the poor animals; but I could fix on 
none that seemed to promise the least success.</p>

<p>Yes, said Fritz a little consequentially, for 
this once the privy-counsellor has tried his 
talents at invention.</p>

<p>This indeed is very true, replied I; in all 
humility have I to confess, that to Fritz alone 
all praise belongs, and that to his sagacity it 
is, that we are indebted for our success. His 
mother could not refrain from giving him a 
hearty kiss. Our gratitude is due to both, 
said she; for both have laboured to give us 
the possession of this troop of animals, an 
acquisition beyond any other, agreeable and 
serviceable to us, in the situation in which it 
has pleased Providence to place us.</p>

<p>Ha ha! cried little Francis, what is that 
I see in your boat? Look, mamma, there is 
a sail and a new flag floating about in the 
air. How pretty they are! I like the sail 
and the flag much better than the ass and the 
cow.</p>

<p>Little blockhead! said his mother, you 
will change your mind when I give you 
every morning a cocoa-nut full of delicious 
milk.</p>

<p>Ernest and Jack now ran also to the boat, 
and bestowed no less admiration than Francis 
had done upon the mast, the sail, and the 
flag, desiring their brother to explain to them 
how all the things they saw had been 
effected, and what he had himself done 
towards them. In the mean time we began 
to unpack our cargo, which was by no means 
a trifling undertaking; while Jack, who had 
no fancy for the occupation, stole aside and 
amused himself with the animals, took off 
the jackets from the sheep and goats, 
bursting from time to time into shouts of 
laughter at the ridiculous figure of the ass, who 
stood before them adorned with his two 
casks and his swimming apparatus, and 
braying loud enough to make us deaf. Jack tried 
a long time to disengage the ass from his 
incumbrances, but constantly found difficulties 
he knew not how to overcome; till at last, 
tired out with so many fruitless endeavours, 
and longing to be in some way a more 
effectual actor in the scene, he got upon the 
ass’s back between the casks, and kicked 
and stirred so violently against his sides, that 
he at last succeeded in causing the animal 
to advance to the place where we were all 
assembled.</p>

<p>We were much amused, and laughed 
heartily at the sight of so singular an 
equipage; when, as I was assisting him to get 
down from the ass’s back, I perceived, with 
surprise, that he had round his waist a belt 
of metal covered with yellow skin, in which 
were fixed a pair of pistols.</p>

<p>In the name of Heaven! exclaimed I, 
where did you procure this curious costume, 
which gives you the look of a smuggler?</p>

<p>From my own manufactory, replied he; 
and if you cast your eyes upon the dogs, 
you will see more of my specimens.</p>

<p>Accordingly I looked at them, and 
perceived that each had on a collar similar to 
the belt round Jack’s waist, with, however, 
the exception of the collars being armed with 
a number of nails, the points of which were 
outwards, and exhibited a most formidable 
appearance. And is it you, Mr. Jack, cried 
I, who have invented and executed these 
collars and your belt?</p>

<p>Yes, papa, they are indeed my invention, 
with a little of mamma’s assistance wherever 
it was necessary to use the needle.</p>

<p>But where did you get the leather and the 
thread and the needle?</p>

<p>Fritz’s jackall furnished the first, answered 
my wife; and as to the last, a good mother 
of a family is always provided with them. 
You men think only of more serious 
concerns, while those of less importance fall to 
the care of a wife, and are frequently more 
useful. Then have I not an enchanted bag, 
from which I draw out such articles as I 
stand in need of? So, if you have a 
particular fancy for any thing, you have only to 
acquaint me with it. I tenderly embraced 
my wife, to express my thanks for this effort 
to amuse by so agreeable a raillery, and Jack 
too came in for his share, both of the 
caresses and our most hearty commendations. 
But Fritz was somewhat angry and 
discontented on finding that Jack had taken upon 
him to dispose of his jackall, and to cut his 
beautiful skin into slices. He, however, 
concealed his ill-humour as well as he could; 
but, as he stood quite near to his brother, 
he called out suddenly, holding his nose as 
he spoke: What a filthy smell! it is enough 
to give me the plague! Does it perchance 
proceed from you, Mr. Currier? Is this the 
perfume we may expect from your 
manufactory? It is rather yours than mine, 
replied Jack in a resentful tone; for it was 
your jackall which you hung up in the sun 
to dry.</p>

<p>And which would have been dried in a 
whole skin, if it had not pleased your 
sublime fancy to cut it to pieces, instead of 
leaving me the power to do what I pleased 
with my own booty.</p>

<p>Son Fritz, said I in a somewhat angry 
tone, this is not generous on your part. Of 
what importance is it, whether it was your 
brother or yourself who cut up the skin of 
the jackall, if by so doing it has contributed 
to our use? My dear children, we are here 
in this desert island, in just such a situation 
as that of our first parents when they were 
driven out of the garden of Eden; it was 
still in their power to enjoy happiness in the 
fertile land in which God permitted them 
to live; and this happiness was to proceed 
from their obedience, from the work of their 
hands, and the sweat of their brow: a 
thousand and a thousand blessings were granted 
for their use, but they suffered the passions 
of jealousy, envy, and hatred to take root in 
their bosoms; Cain killed his brother Abel, 
and thus plunged his unhappy parents into 
the deepest affliction, so that he and his race 
were cursed by God. This is the horrid 
crime to which the habit of disputing may 
conduct. Let us then avoid such an evil, 
let us share one with the other in every 
benefit bestowed upon us, and from this 
moment may the words <i>yours</i> and <i>mine</i> be 
banished from our happy circle! What is 
discovered or procured by one of you, should 
be equally for the service of all, and belong 
to all, without distinction. It is quite 
certain, Jack, that the belt round your waist, 
not being dry, has an offensive smell; the 
pleasure of wearing what you had 
ingeniously contrived, makes you willing to bear 
with the inconvenience: but we should never 
make our own pleasure the pain of another. 
I therefore desire that you will take it off 
and place it in the sun to dry, and take care 
that it does not shrink during the operation; 
and then you can join your brothers, and 
assist them to throw the jackall into the sea.</p>

<p>Fritz’s ill-humour was already over; but 
Jack, whose temper was less docile, persisted 
in keeping on the belt, assuming an air of 
importance, which was meant to express 
that he was not disposed to yield. His 
brothers, however, continued their warfare, 
by pretending to avoid him, and crying out—What 
a smell! What a smell! till at length 
Jack, tired with the part he had been acting, 
suddenly stripped off the belt, and ran to assist 
his brothers in dragging the dead jackall to 
the sea, where he no longer occasioned us 
any inconvenience.</p>

<p>Perceiving that no preparations were 
making for supper, I ordered Fritz to bring us 
the Westphalia ham, for that I was hungry. 
The eyes of all were now fixed upon me 
with astonishment; for every one believed 
that I could only be in jest; when Fritz 
returned, jumping and displaying with 
exultation a large and excellent ham, which we 
had begun to cut in the morning. A ham! 
cried one and all; a ham! and ready drest! 
What a nice supper we shall have! said they, 
clapping their hands, to give a hearty 
welcome to the bearer of so fine a treat.—It 
comes quite in the nick of time too, 
interrupted I; for, to judge by appearances, a 
certain careful steward I could name, seems 
to have intended to send us supperless to 
bed, little thinking, I suppose, that a long 
voyage by water is apt to increase the 
appetite.</p>

<p>I will tell you presently, replied my wife, 
what it was that prevented me from 
providing a supper for you all at an earlier hour: 
your ham, however, makes you ample 
amends; and I have something in my hand 
with which I shall make a pretty side dish; 
in the twinkling of an eye you shall see it 
make its entrance. She now showed us 
about a dozen of turtle’s eggs, and then 
hurried away to make an omelette of some 
of them.</p>

<p>Oh! look, papa, said Ernest, if they are 
not the very same sort which Robinson 
Crusoe found in his island! See, they are 
like white balls, covered with a skin like 
wetted parchment! We found them upon 
the sands along the shore.</p>

<p>Your account is perfectly just, my dear 
boy, said I: by what means did you make 
so useful a discovery? Oh, that is a part of 
our history, interrupted my wife; for I also 
have a history to relate, when you will be so 
good as to listen to it.</p>

<p>Hasten then, my love, and get your pretty 
side-dish ready, and we will have the history 
for the dessert. In the mean while I will 
relieve the cow and the ass from the 
encumbrance of their sea accoutrements, for I am 
sure they will be glad to get rid of them. 
Come along, boys, and give me your help. 
I got up, and they all followed me gaily to 
the shore, where the animals had remained. 
We were not long in effecting our purpose 
with the cow and the ass, who were both 
animals of a quiet and kind temper; but 
when it was the turn of the grunting sow, 
our success was neither so easy nor so 
certain; we had no sooner untied the rope than 
she escaped from us, and with so much 
rapidity that none of us could get hold of her. 
The idea occurred to Ernest of sending the 
two dogs after her, who caught her by the 
ears and brought her back, while we were 
half deafened with the hideous noise she 
made; but at length she suffered us to take 
off her cork jacket quietly enough. We 
now laid the swimming apparatus across the 
ass’s back, and returned to the kitchen; our 
slothful Ernest being highly delighted at 
finding that he was likely in future to have 
our loads carried for us by a servant.</p>

<p>In the mean while, my kind wife had 
prepared the omelette, and spread a tablecloth 
on the end of the cask of butter, upon which 
she had placed some of the plates and silver 
spoons we had brought from the ship. The 
ham was in the middle, and the omelette and 
the cheese opposite to each other; and all 
together made a figure not to be despised by 
the inhabitants of a desert island. By and 
by the two dogs, the fowls, the pigeons, the 
sheep, and the goats, had all assembled round 
us, which gave us something like the air of 
sovereigns of the country. It did not please 
the geese and ducks to add themselves to the 
number of these our curious-looking 
subjects: they seemed to prefer their natural 
element, and confined themselves to a 
marshy swamp, where they found a kind of 
little crabs in great abundance: these 
animals furnished a delicious food for them, 
and relieved us of the care of providing for 
their support.</p>

<p>When we had finished our repast, I bade 
Fritz present our company with a bottle of 
Canary wine, which we had brought from 
the captain’s cabin, and I then desired my 
wife would indulge us with the promised 
history. I first requested her to taste our 
wine, and then she began her narrative, as 
will be seen in the ensuing volume.</p>

<br/>

<p class="ph4" style="text-indent:0em; text-align:center">END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.</p>

<hr class="hr2"/>

<p class="ph6" style="text-indent:0em; text-align:center"><i>Printed by R. and A. Taylor, Shoe-lane, London.</i></p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<header><p class="ph3" style="text-indent:0em; text-align:center">THE<br/>
<br/>
FAMILY ROBINSON CRUSOE.</p></header>

<hr class="hr4"/>

<h2 style="page-break-before: avoid"><a href="#chap07" id="chap07" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER VII.<br/>
<small><em>Second journey of discovery performed by 
the mother of the family.</em></small></h2>

<p><span class="smcap">You</span> pretend, said my wife with a little 
malicious smile, to be curious about my 
history, and for all that, you have not let me 
speak a single word in all this time; but 
the longer a torrent is pent up, and 
interrupted in its course, the longer it flows when 
once let loose. Now then, that you will 
have the condescension to attend, I shall give 
vent to a certain little movement of 
vanity, which is fluttering at my heart. Not, 
however, to intrude too long upon your 
patience, I will take a leap over the first day 
of your absence, in the course of which, 
nothing new took place, except my anxiety 
on your account, which confined me for the 
most part to the spot from whence you 
embarked, and from which I could see the 
vessel. But this morning, after the 
gratifying sight of the signal you had promised, 
and having set up mine in return, I looked 
about, before the boys were up, in hopes to 
find a shady place, in which I might sit down 
and rest myself: but not an inch of ground 
appeared of this description, for there is not 
a single tree in any direction near us, and 
the only bit of shade which presented itself, 
was behind our tent. This occasioned me 
to reflect a little seriously on our situation. 
It will be impossible, said I to myself, to 
remain in this place, scorched, during the whole 
of the day, by the burning heat of the sun, 
without any other shelter than a miserable 
tent, under which the heat is even more 
excessive than without. Courage then! said 
I, my husband and my eldest son are at this 
moment actively employed in the vessel for 
the general good; why then should not I, on 
my part, be active and enterprising also? 
why not undertake, with my youngest sons, 
to do something that shall add some one 
comfort to our existence? I will pass over 
with them to the other side of the river, and 
with my own eyes examine the country 
respecting which my husband and Fritz have 
related such wonders. I will try to find out 
some well shaded agreeable spot, in which we 
may all be settled. I now cast another look 
towards the vessel; but perceiving no sign of 
your return, I determined to share a slight 
dinner with the boys, and courageously to 
set out on a journey of discovery for a 
habitation which might afford us more 
convenience, and a better shelter from the sun.</p>

<p>In the course of the morning, Jack had 
slipped away to the side of the tent where 
Fritz had hung his jackall, and with his 
knife, which he sharpened from time to time 
upon the rock, he cut some long slips of 
skin, lengthways, from the back of the 
animal, and afterwards set about cleaning them 
with great attention. Ernest discovered him 
employed in this uncleanly occupation; and 
as he is, as we all know, a little delicate, and 
afraid to soil his fingers, he not only refused 
to give Jack any assistance, but thought fit to 
sneer a little at the currier-like trade which 
he had engaged in. Jack, who, as we 
also know, has not the most patient temper 
in the world, raised his hand to give him a 
little cuff. Ernest made his escape, more 
alarmed, I believe, by Jack’s dirty hands, 
than by the expected blow; while I, for my 
part, ran to set them right, and to give a 
mother’s reproof to both. Jack persisted 
that he had a justification full and 
undeniable, in the great usefulness of the said dirty 
work; for, said he, it is intended to make 
some collars, which I shall afterwards arm 
with spikes, and the dogs will wear them for 
our defence. I saw in an instant that Ernest 
had been the aggressor, and on him fell the 
reproof; I represented how little a 
squeamish delicacy like his, suited with the difficulties 
of our situation, in which one and all were 
called upon to assist, in any employment that 
should promise to contribute to the general 
good.</p>

<p>Jack returned to his strips of skin, the 
cleaning of which he completed very cleverly. 
When he had finished this part of his 
undertaking, he looked out from the chest 
of nails, those that were longest, and which 
had the largest and flattest heads: these he 
stuck through the whole of the bit of skin 
intended for the collar, at small distances. 
He next cut a strip of sail-cloth the same 
breadth as the leather, and, laying it along on 
the heads of the nails, politely proposed to 
me the agreeable occupation of sewing them 
together, to prevent the heads of the nails 
from injuring the dogs. I begged leave to 
be excused; but observing afterwards the 
good-humour with which he set about trying 
to sew them for himself, and that with all 
his good-will it was too difficult for a boy to 
execute, I conquered my repugnance to the 
wild fetid smell of the leather, and rewarded 
him by completing the job myself;—a mother 
seldom refuses the sacrifice of a little 
personal convenience, if it can afford delight 
to a virtuous child.</p>

<p>But now having yielded the first time, I 
found I had made myself liable to a further 
claim on my good-nature. The next thing 
was a belt for himself, which he had 
manufactured of the same materials, and was 
impatient to see completed,—it being intended 
to contain his two pistols. We shall see, 
said he, strutting about as he spoke, if the 
jackalls will dare to attack us now. But, my 
dear Jack, said I, you do not foresee what will 
happen;—a piece of skin not entirely dry, 
is always liable to shrink when exposed to 
the heat. So, after all the disagreeable task 
you have imposed upon me, you will not be 
able to make use of it. My little workman, 
as I said this, struck his forehead, and 
betrayed other marks of impatience. What 
you say is true, said he, and I had not well 
considered; but I know of an effectual 
remedy. He then took a hammer and some 
nails, and stretched his strips of leather on 
a plank, which he then laid in the sun to 
dry quickly, thus preventing the possibility 
of their shrinking. I applauded his 
invention, and promised him I would not fail to 
give you a full account of his proceedings.</p>

<p>I next assembled them all three round 
me, and informed them of my plans for an 
excursion, and you may believe I heard nothing 
like a dissenting voice. They lost not 
a moment in preparing for our departure; 
they examined their arms, their game-bags, 
looked out the best clasp knives, and 
cheerfully undertook to carry the provision-bags; 
while I, for my share, was loaded with a 
large flask of water and hatchet, for which 
I thought it likely we might find a use. I 
also took the light gun which belongs to 
Ernest, and gave him in return a carbine, which 
might be loaded with several balls at once. 
We took some refreshment, and then sallied 
forth, attended by the two dogs for an 
escort. Turk, who had already accompanied 
you in the direction I intended to take, 
seemed well aware that he knew the way, and 
proceeded at the head of the party in quality 
of a conductor. We arrived at the place at 
which you had crossed the river, and 
succeeded in passing over as securely as you 
had done, not however without considerable 
difficulty.</p>

<p>As we advanced, I reflected that our safety 
depended in some measure on the two 
boys, because it was they only who knew 
how to use the guns. I now for the first 
time began to feel how fortunate it was, that 
you had accustomed them from infancy to 
face danger of every kind; in our own 
country I had sometimes blamed you for 
allowing them the use of guns, and showing 
them how to fire. I was averse to their 
conceiving a partiality to field sports, and 
apprehended numberless accidents that might 
happen to them. But at present I am 
convinced that every parent who adopts a hardy 
scheme of education acts the wisest part. Let 
me now resume the passing of the river.</p>

<p>Ernest was first in reaching the other side, 
and met with no accident. The little Francis 
entreated me to carry him on my back, 
which appeared difficult enough, as I must 
have left the things with which I was loaded, 
on the shore, and have returned to fetch 
them. At length we found means to manage 
pretty well, thanks to Jack, who relieved me 
of my gun and hatchet. But for himself, 
finding he was scarcely able to stand under 
this added weight, he resolved to go straight 
into the water at once, rather than run the 
risk of slipping, by stepping on the loose 
wet pieces of stone, when so heavily loaded. 
I myself had great difficulty to keep myself 
steady with the dear little burden at my back, 
who joined his hands round my neck, and 
leaned with all his weight upon my 
shoulders. After having filled my flask with 
river water, we proceeded on our way; and 
when we had reached to the top of the 
ascent on the other side, which you described 
to us as so enchanting, I myself experienced 
the same effect from the delightful scenery 
around. I continued for some time to look 
and admire in silence; and for the first time 
since the event of our dreadful accident at 
sea, I felt my heart begin to open to a sense 
of enjoyment and of hope.</p>

<p>In casting my eyes over the vast extent 
before me, I had observed a small wood of 
the most inviting aspect. I had so long 
sighed for a little shade, that I resolved 
without hesitation to take our course towards it: 
for this, however, it was necessary to go a 
long way through a strong kind of grass, 
which reached above the heads of the little 
boys; an obstacle which, on trial, we found too 
difficult to overcome. We therefore resolved 
to pursue a direction along the river, till 
it was necessary to turn upon the wood. 
We found traces of your footsteps, and took 
care to follow them till we had come to a turn 
on the right, which seemed to lead 
directly to it; but here again we were 
interrupted by the extraordinary height and 
thickness of the grass, which nothing but 
the most indefatigable endeavours could 
have enabled us to get through. Jack was 
now loitering a little behind, and I frequently 
turned round to observe what he could be 
doing: at last I saw him tearing off some 
handfulls of grass, and wiping his clothes 
with it; and then I perceived him shake his 
pocket-handkerchief, which was wet, and lay 
it on his shoulders to dry. I hastened back 
to him, to inquire what had happened.</p>

<p>Oh, mother, said he, I believe all the 
water of the river we have crossed, has got 
into my pockets: only see, every thing I 
had in them is wet, pistols, turfs, every 
thing.</p>

<p>Good heavens! interrupted I in great 
alarm, had you put your pistols in your 
pocket? They were not loaded, I hope?</p>

<p>I am sure I do not know, mother; I only 
put them there while my belt was drying, 
that I might always have them about me.</p>

<p>Thoughtless, yet fortunate boy! exclaimed 
I. Do you know what an escape you have 
had? If with the suddenness of your motions 
the pistols had gone off, they would infallibly 
have killed you. Take care, I entreat you, 
not to commit such an imprudence in future. 
There is nothing, I believe, to fear, mother, 
for this time, replied he, holding the pistols 
so as to let the water run out of them. And 
in reality I perceived, by the condition they 
were in, that there was little danger of their 
going off. While we were conversing about 
what had happened, our attention was 
interrupted by a sudden noise, and looking about, 
we perceived a large bird issuing from the 
thickest part of the grass, and mounting in the 
air. Each of the boys prepared to fire, but 
before they could be ready, the bird was out 
of the reach of shot. Ernest was bitterly 
disappointed, and instantly exchanged the 
gun for the carbine I had given him, crying: 
What a pity! If I had but had the lightest 
gun! if the bird had not got away so fast, 
I would lay any wager I should have killed 
him.</p>

<p>The mischief was, no doubt, that you 
did not let him know beforehand that it 
was your pleasure he should wait till you 
could be quite ready, observed I, laughing.</p>

<p>But, mother, how could I possibly suppose 
that the bird could fly away in less than the 
twinkling of an eye? Ah, if one would but 
come at this very moment!</p>

<p>A good sportsman, Ernest, always holds 
himself in readiness, this being, as I 
understand, the great art of a sportsman; for you 
must know, that birds never send messages 
to give notice of their coming.</p>

<p>I wish I could but know, said Jack, what 
bird it was; I never saw any the least like 
it.</p>

<p>I am sure it was an eagle, said the little 
Francis, for I have read in my book of 
fables that an eagle can carry off a sheep; 
and this bird was terribly large.</p>

<p>O yes, said Ernest scoffingly, as if all 
large birds must be eagles! Why, do you not 
know that there are some birds much larger 
even than eagles? the ostrich for example, 
which travellers sometimes name the Condor 
or the Candor. I must confess it would have 
afforded me the highest pleasure to have 
examined him minutely.</p>

<p>If you had had time to examine him, you 
would have had time to kill him, said I: but, 
as the opportunity is gone, let us look for 
the place in the grass from which he 
mounted; we may judge at least of his size by the 
mark he will have left there. The boys 
now all scampered away to the place; when 
suddenly a second bird, exactly like the 
first, except that he was a little larger, rushed 
out with a great noise and mounted above 
their heads.</p>

<p>The boys remained stupid with 
astonishment, following him with their eyes and 
open mouths without speaking a word, while 
for my own part I could not help laughing 
heartily. Oh! such fine sportsmen as we 
have here! cried I: they will never let us be 
in want of game, I plainly perceive. <i>Ah! if 
one would but come at this very moment!</i> 
these were your own words, Ernest, and 
behold one came, and you have let him escape: 
it is not of much use, methinks, to load your 
guns. Ernest, always a little disposed 
to vent uneasiness by crying, now began to 
sob; but Jack, with a curious mixture of a 
tragi-comic bravery upon his features, darted 
his eager eyes upon the mountain traveller, 
and taking off his hat made a profound bow, 
roaring out, as if for the bird to hear: Have 
the goodness, Mr. Traveller, to indulge me 
once more with a little visit, only for a single 
minute: you cannot imagine what good sort 
of people we are: I entreat that we may have 
the pleasure of seeing you once again.....</p>

<p>We now minutely examined the place from 
which the birds had mounted, and found 
a kind of large nest formed of dried plants, 
and the workmanship of which was clumsy 
enough; the nest was empty, with the 
exception of some broken shells of eggs. I 
inferred from this, that their young had lately 
been hatched; and observing at this moment 
a rustling motion among some plants of 
shorter growth, at some distance from the 
spot on which we stood, I concluded that the 
young covey were scampering away in that 
direction; but as the motion soon ceased, 
we had no longer a guide to conduct us to 
their retreat. We had now then a moment 
for remark. Ernest, assuming his professor 
tone, began: You see clearly, I suppose, 
Francis, that these large birds which we have met 
with, cannot possibly be eagles, for that 
species of birds was never known to make their 
nests in the grass; neither are their young 
ones capable of taking care of themselves so 
soon after being hatched; the only birds 
that can walk without help as soon as they 
come out of the shell, are partridges and 
quails.</p>

<p>Give me leave, interrupted I, to add to 
your list, all birds of the gallinaceous kind, 
such as the turkey, the peacock, and the 
Guinea fowl; and no doubt many other 
wild fowls have the same feature in their 
description.</p>

<p>But, mother, replied he, birds of the 
gallinaceous kind have not white feathers on 
the belly, and slate-coloured wings, like 
those which have just escaped us. I, for my 
part, am of opinion, that they were the great 
bustard; the second bird having a small 
mustacho on the side of the beak, which 
answers to the description I have seen of 
him in my engravings.</p>

<p>What you have seen, Ernest, is always 
in engravings, said Jack. For my part, I 
should like for once to see a real original 
that you had had the skill to vanquish. If 
Fritz had been with us, I can tell you, the 
said birds would now be lying dead before 
us, and then you would have an opportunity 
of comparing them with your engravings.</p>

<p>I, for my part, observed I, most heartily 
rejoice that things have happened as they 
did, and that those poor little birds which 
stand so much in need of their parents’ care, 
have not been deprived of them. What 
would be your own sensation, if a cruel 
savage of this country should attack your 
father or mother, with an intention to destroy 
them?</p>

<p>I can more easily tell you, mother, what I 
would do, than what I should feel, said Jack, 
straightening his arm as he held the pistol: 
young as I am, I think I can answer, that if 
such a bird as that should come in my way, 
he should meet with a reception that would 
not much incline him to repeat his visit.</p>

<p>I thank you, my good fellow: but this 
would not be so easy as you imagine; for 
though you have arrived at the prodigious age 
of your tenth year, there would be some 
difficulty in conquering one who would have 
twice your own strength. But now for a 
little grave advice:—Take care, my excellent 
children, to guard against the growth of the 
insensible and cruel disposition, which a 
passion for field-sports is so apt to inspire; it is 
for this reason that I have never wished my 
family to be fond of them. It has always 
appeared to me that no animals ought to be 
destroyed, but those who do injury to man, 
or are indispensably necessary for his 
support.</p>

<p>Discoursing thus, we reached the little 
wood; and here our son Ernest had an 
opportunity of recognising many of the originals 
of the engravings in his books of natural 
history, and of displaying his knowledge, or 
his ignorance, to his heart’s content. A 
prodigious quantity of unknown birds were 
skipping and warbling on the branches of the 
trees, without betraying the least alarm at 
our vicinity. In spite of the lesson in 
morality which I had so lately been pronouncing, 
the desire of firing upon them again 
possessed their hearts; but this I absolutely 
forbade, and with the less scruple, as the trees 
were of so enormous a height as to be out 
of gun-shot reach.—No, my dear husband, 
you cannot possibly form an idea of the 
trees we now beheld! You must somehow 
have missed this wood; or so extraordinary 
a sight could not have escaped your 
observation; in my whole life I have never seen a 
single tree of so immense a size. What 
appeared to us at a distance to be a wood, was 
only a group of about fourteen of them, the 
trunks of which looked as if they were 
supported in their upright position, by so many 
arches on each side, the arches being formed 
by portions of the roots of the tree, of great 
thickness and extent. Meanwhile the tree 
itself is further supported by a perpendicular 
root, placed in the midst of the others, and 
of a smaller compass, while the projecting 
roots extend themselves on every side of the 
tree, and double the circumference it would 
have.</p>

<p>Jack climbed with considerable trouble 
upon one of these arch-formed roots, and 
with a packthread in his hand measured the 
actual circumference of the tree itself. He 
found that it measured more than fifteen 
braches (the brache is equal to twenty-two 
inches and a half). I made thirty-two steps 
in going round one of those giant trees at the 
roots; and its height from the ground to the 
place where the branches begin to shoot, may 
be about thirty-six braches. The twigs of 
this tree are strong and thick; its leaves 
moderately large in size, and bearing some 
resemblance to the hazel tree of Europe; but 
I was unable to discover that it bore any fruit. 
The soil immediately round the tree and 
under its branches, produced in great abundance 
a short thick kind of plant, unmixed with any 
of the thistle kind, and of a perfectly smooth 
surface. Thus every circumstance seemed to 
concur in inviting us to use this spot as a place 
of repose; and my predilection for it grew so 
strong that I resolved to go no further, but to 
enjoy its delicious coolness till it should be time 
to return. I sat down in this verdant elysium 
with my three sons around me. We took 
out our provision-bags; a charming stream, 
formed to increase the coolness and beauty 
of the scene, flowed at our feet, and supplied 
us with a fresh and salutary beverage. Our 
dogs were not long in reaching us; they 
had remained behind, sauntering about the 
skirts of the wood. To my great surprise, 
they did not ask for any thing to eat, but 
lay down quietly, and were soon asleep at 
our feet. For my own part, I felt that I 
could never tire of beholding and admiring 
this enchanting spot; it occurred to me, that 
if we could but contrive a kind of tent that 
could be fixed in one of the trees, we might 
safely come and make our abode here. I had 
found nothing in any other direction that 
suited us so well in every respect; and I 
resolved to look no further. When we had 
shared our dinner among us, and well rested 
from our fatigue, we set out on our return, 
again keeping close to the river, half 
expecting to see along the shore, some of the 
pieces or other vestiges of the vessel, which 
the waves might have washed on shore there.</p>

<p>But before we left our enchanting retreat, 
Jack entreated me to stay a little longer, and 
finish sewing the linen strips to his leather 
belt. The little coxcomb had so great an 
ambition to strut about and exhibit himself 
in his belt, that he had taken the trouble to 
carry the piece of wood on which he had 
nailed his skin to dry, along with him, 
through the whole of our expedition. Finding 
that the skin was really dry, I granted his 
request, preferring, since it appeared that 
work I must, to do it now when I had the 
advantage of being in the shade, than after 
I should be returned to the scorching 
of the sun outside our tent. When I 
had finished my task, he eagerly fastened the 
belt round him, and placed his pistols in it; 
he set himself before us in a marching step, 
with the knuckles of his hand turned back 
upon his hip, leaving to Ernest the care of 
putting on the dogs’ collars; which he insisted 
should be done, for it would give them, he 
said, a martial air. The little hero was all 
impatience for you and Fritz to see him in his 
new accoutrement; so that I had enough to do 
to walk quick enough to keep sight of him; 
for, in a country where no track of the foot 
of man is to be found, we might easily lose 
each other. I became more tranquil 
respecting him when we had got once more all 
together on the sea-shore; for, as I expected, 
we found there pieces of timber, poles, large 
and small chests, and other articles which I 
knew had come from the vessel. None of us 
however were strong enough to bring them 
away; we therefore contented ourselves with 
dragging all we could reach to the dry sands, 
beyond the reach of the waves at the highest 
state of the tide. Our dogs, for their part, 
were fully employed in fishing for crabs, 
which they drew with their paws to the shore, 
as the waves washed them up, and on which 
they made an excellent repast. I now 
understood that it was this sort of prey which had 
appeased their hunger before they joined us 
at dinner. Heaven be praised, cried I, that 
our animals have found means to procure 
sustenance at so cheap a rate! for I really 
began to think that, with their enormous 
appetites, they might some day have taken it 
into their heads to eat their masters.</p>

<p>Eat us! exclaimed my brave son Jack, 
you surely forget; am I not here to defend 
you with my pistols?</p>

<p>Silly young pretender! they would swallow 
you if they had a mind, as easily as you 
would swallow a pill; but in reality they 
are kind excellent creatures, who love us, 
and will never do us any harm. By 
swallowing us, I meant that they would so 
considerably diminish our provisions, that in this 
respect they would inflict upon us a serious 
misfortune.</p>

<p>We now suddenly cast our eyes on Ponto, 
whom we perceived employed in turning over 
a round substance he had found in the sands, 
some pieces of which he swallowed from 
time to time. Ernest also perceived what he 
was about, and did us the favour, with his 
usual composure, to pronounce just these 
words:—They are turtles’ eggs!</p>

<p>Run, my children, cried I, and get as many 
of them as you can; they are excellent, and 
I shall have the greatest pleasure in being 
able to regale our dear travellers on their 
return, with so new and delicious a dish. We 
found it a little difficult to make Ponto come 
away from the eggs, to which he had taken 
a great fancy. At length, however, we 
succeeded in collecting near two dozen of them, 
which we secured in our provision-bags. 
When we had concluded this affair, we by 
accident cast our eyes upon the boundless 
ocean, and to our great astonishment we 
perceived a sail, which seemed to be joyfully 
approaching towards the land. I knew not 
what to think; but Ernest, who always 
thinks he knows every thing, or can guess 
at every thing, exclaimed that it was you 
and Fritz; but little Francis was terribly 
afraid that it must be the savages come to 
eat us up, like those described in Robinson 
Crusoe’s Island. We soon, however, had 
the happiness of being convinced that Ernest 
was right, and that it was indeed our 
well-beloved! We ran eagerly towards the river, 
which Jack and Ernest recrossed as before, 
by leaping from one great stone to another; 
while I also resumed my burden of little 
Francis at my back, and in this manner soon 
arrived at the place of your landing, when 
we had nothing further to do but to throw 
ourselves into your arms! This, my dear 
husband, is a faithful and circumstantial 
narration of our journey of discovery; and 
now, if you wish me a great deal of 
happiness, you will not refuse to conduct me and 
your sons, with our whole train of animals, 
to the spot I have described, where we 
cannot fail to find a more agreeable asylum 
than here, under these scorching rocks.</p>

<p>And these giant trees are then the asylum 
you have chosen for our future abode! And 
you would have a tent set up in one of 
them, at a distance of more than sixty-six 
feet from the ground, where we should be 
perched like parrots! And pray by what 
means are we to ascend this tree? for at 
present I have no clear view of this important 
part of the subject.</p>

<p>Alas! my dear husband, I see the 
objections against my plan as plainly as you can 
do; but after all, we cannot but be 
considerable gainers by the change: for my part, I 
dared not venture further without having 
my dear protector at my side. Who knows, 
if we were to set out together upon another 
expedition, if we should not find a still more 
convenient spot, in which we could take up 
our abode?</p>

<p>I perceived a tear stealing into my wife’s 
eyes, on finding that she could not prevail 
upon me to think as favourably as she wished 
of her discovery, and that I treated the 
subject of her giant trees with so little respect:</p>

<p>I therefore endeavoured by every means to 
sooth and relieve her somewhat wounded 
sensibility. I assured her how much I 
admired her courage, and that I considered her 
adventure as a proof that women possess 
that fine quality in as great perfection in their 
hearts, as some men exhibit instances of it 
in their conduct. Do not then distress 
yourself, my love, but tell me if I shall make 
you a balloon of sail-cloth, to enable you to 
arrive at your country seat amongst the 
branches.</p>

<p>Yes, yes, said she, laugh as much as you 
like, if it amuses you; but I assure you my 
plan is not so silly as you imagine; one 
advantage, at least, it is certain we should 
derive,—the being out of reach of jackalls and 
other wild beasts. Do you recollect the large 
lime-tree in the public walk of the town we 
lived in, and the pretty little room which had 
been built among its branches, and the flight 
of stairs which led to it? What should 
hinder us from effecting such a contrivance 
in one of my giant trees, which afford even 
superior facilities in the enormous size and 
strength of their branches, and the peculiar 
manner of their growth?</p>

<p>Well, well, we shall see about it. In the 
mean while, my boys, let us extract a little 
lesson in arithmetic, from the subject of these 
marvellous trees; for this, at least, will be 
deriving a real benefit from them. Tell me, 
learned Mr. Ernest, how many feet there are 
in thirty-six braches? for that, your mother 
assures us, is the height of the trees.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—To answer this question, I must 
know first how many feet or inches the 
brache contains.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—I thought you knew long ago 
as much as this; but, as usual in young 
heads, what goes in at one ear goes out at 
the other. I must then remind you, as you 
have forgot, that the brache, or half-ell, 
contains one foot ten inches, or twenty-two 
inches. Now then make your calculation.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—I do not find it so easy as I 
thought. You must help me, Fritz, you are 
older than I am.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—With all my heart. First we take 
thirty-six braches; then multiply 36 by 22, 
the number of inches each brach contains, 
and you have 792; divide this by 12, the 
number of inches in a foot, and it will give 
us 66 for the number of feet. Is that right, 
father?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Yes, quite right. So, my dear 
wife, you will have every evening to climb 
sixty-six feet to get to bed, which, as we 
have no ladder, is not the easiest thing 
imaginable. Now then let us see how many 
feet the tree is in circumference, taking it 
round the roots. Your mother found that 
she walked round it in thirty-two steps. 
Now then, Ernest, how many feet do you 
think these thirty-two steps would make?</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—You always ask me the things 
that I know nothing at all about: you should 
tell me, at least, how many feet there are in 
a step.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Well, say two feet and a half to 
each step.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—Twice 32 makes 64; the half of 
32 is 16; which added to 64 makes 80 feet.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Very well. Tell me now, if 
you recollect the proper term in geometry 
for the circumference of a circle, or say of a 
tree, since we are talking of trees.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—Oh, you may be sure that I 
could not forget that it is called the 
periphery.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Right. And what is the term 
for any line which may be drawn from one 
point of the periphery to another, passing 
through the centre? Now, Jack, you may 
show us what a great geometrician you 
intend to be.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—I believe it is called the diameter.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—So far right. Next, can you tell 
me what is the diameter of a periphery of 
eighty feet, and what distance there is 
between the extremities of the roots of the 
giant tree and its trunk?</p>

<p>The boys all began to reckon, and soon 
one said one number, one said another,—at 
random; but Fritz called out louder than 
the rest, that the distance was twenty-six 
feet.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—You are pretty near. Tell me, 
did you make a calculation, or was it a mere 
guess?</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—No, father, not a guess; but I 
will tell you. In the town in which we 
lived, I have often taken notice that the 
hatter, when he was about to bind the edge 
of a hat, always measured three times the 
length of the diameter, and a trifle over, for 
the quantity of ribbon he should use: thus 
I had no difficulty in finding that the third 
of eighty was about twenty-six; and adding 
a couple of feet for the over measure, we 
may call it twenty-eight.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—I am glad to see you did not 
lose such an opportunity for calculation; but 
a great boy like you, who have advanced in 
your studies, ought not to be under 
obligations to the hatter for the answer. But now 
let us go back to the measure of our trees, 
which are really of a most extraordinary 
size. Height from the ground to the 
branches, sixty-six feet; thickness, eight 
feet in diameter, and twenty-eight feet 
distance from the extremities of the roots to 
the trunk. They really, with propriety, may 
be called giant trees.</p>

<p>Having finished our conversation, we 
performed our devotions, and retired to rest, 
grateful and well satisfied to find ourselves 
once more together, and in health. We soon 
closed our eyes, and enjoyed tranquil 
slumbers till break of day.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap08" id="chap08" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER VIII.<br/>
<small><em>Construction of a bridge.</em></small></h2>

<p><span class="smcap">When</span> my wife and I were awake next 
morning, we resumed the question of our 
change of abode. I observed to her, that 
it was a matter of great difficulty, and 
required mature consideration; otherwise we 
might hereafter have reason to repent the 
useless labour and inconvenience we should 
have brought upon ourselves, by a fruitless 
removal. My own opinion is, said I, that, 
upon the whole, we had better remain here, 
where Providence seems to have conducted 
us; the situation of the place affords 
conveniences, both with respect to our personal 
safety and being so near to the vessel, from 
which we may continue to enrich ourselves. 
See how completely we are on all sides 
protected by the rocks; it is an asylum, 
inaccessible but by sea or by the passage of 
the river, which is not easily accomplished. 
Let us then have patience yet a little longer, 
at least, till we have got all that can be 
removed, or that would be useful to us, from 
the ship.</p>

<p>Nothing can be sounder than your 
reasons, my love, replied my wife; but indeed 
no patience can endure the intense heat of 
these sands, which is even increased by the 
vicinity of the rocks. It is not easy for you 
to conceive how great my sufferings are from 
this cause; for you have generally been out 
on some voyage of discovery, and have been 
occasionally relieved by the shade of trees. 
Another consideration is, that by remaining 
here, we must renounce all hope of procuring 
fruits of any kind, and must live on oysters, 
to which we have all a great aversion, or on 
such wild birds as that which you found 
so unpalatable. And, for the safety you boast 
of, the rocks did not prevent our receiving 
a visit from the jackalls; nor is it improbable 
that tigers or other animals might follow 
their example. Lastly, in regard to the 
treasures we might continue to draw from 
the vessel, I renounce them with all my 
heart. We are already in possession of a 
great abundance of provisions and other 
useful things; and, for my part, my heart 
is always filled with the most distressing 
apprehensions, whenever you and Fritz are 
exposed to the danger of that perfidious 
element the sea.</p>

<p>Upon my word, my love, the shade of 
your giant trees has inspired you with a 
most powerful eloquence; and I perceive that 
nothing so effectually animates the language 
of a female, as an ardent desire and a fixed 
determination to carry a particular point; I 
see that the affair will end by my submitting 
to your will. You are, as you ought to be, 
the director of our plans; but let us have a 
well-digested scheme of operation before we 
leave this spot for your favourite wood.—First, 
we must contrive a place among the 
rocks, where we can leave our provisions 
and other things, which may serve both for 
a fortress and a storehouse, and to which, 
in case of any danger from invasion in the 
wood, we can immediately retreat.—Come 
then, this agreed, the next thing is to throw 
a bridge across the river, if we are to pass 
it with all our family and baggage.</p>

<p>A bridge! exclaimed my wife; can you 
possibly think of such a thing? If we stay 
while you build a bridge, we may consider 
ourselves as fixt here for life. What reason 
can there be, that we should not cross the 
river as we did before? The ass and the 
cow will carry all our goods upon their 
backs.</p>

<p>But do you recollect, that to preserve 
dry what they carry, they must not perform 
their journey as they did from the vessel? 
For this reason, then, if for no other, we 
must contrive a bridge. We shall want also 
some sacks and baskets to contain our 
different matters; you may therefore set about 
making these, and I will undertake the 
bridge, which the more I consider, the more 
I find to be of indispensable necessity; for 
the stream will, no doubt, at times increase, 
and the passage become impracticable in any 
other way. At this very time it would be 
found so for our shortest-legged animals, 
and I am sure you would not wish to see 
them drowned. But even our own boys, at 
least the youngest, will derive a means of 
safety from my bridge; for it is not quite 
certain that they would always succeed so 
well as they did the first time, in their 
jumping from stone to stone.</p>

<p>Well, then, a bridge let there be, said my 
wife; I see I must consent. But let us not 
allow ourselves a moment of leisure till we 
have completed all that is necessary for our 
departure. You will leave our stock of 
gunpowder here, I hope; for I am not easy 
with a large quantity of it so near us; a 
thunder-storm, or some thoughtless action of 
one of the boys, might expose us to serious 
danger.</p>

<p>You are right, my love; and I will 
carefully attend to your suggestion. We will keep 
on hand only a sufficient quantity for daily 
use; I will contrive a place in the rock for 
the rest, where it will be safe from the 
chance of fire or dampness. It is an article 
which, according to the use which is made 
of it, may become on the one hand, a most 
dangerous enemy, and, on the other, a most 
useful friend.</p>

<p>Thus, then, we decided the important 
question of removing to a new abode; after 
which we fixed in concert upon a plan of 
labour for the day, and then awaked the 
boys. Their ecstasy on hearing of our project 
may easily be conceived; but they expressed 
their fear that it would be a long while 
before a bridge could be built; a single hour 
appearing an age to them, with such a 
novelty in view as the prospect of removing to 
the wood, to live under the giant trees. They, 
in the fullness of their joy, entreated that the 
place might be called, <i>The promised Land</i>.</p>

<p>We now began to look about for 
breakfast; Fritz taking care not to neglect his 
monkey, who sucked one of the goats as 
quietly and as contentedly as if she had been 
his mother. My wife undertook to milk 
another, and then the cow, and afterwards 
gave some of the milk to each of the 
children: with a part of what remained she 
made a sort of soup with biscuits, and the 
rest she put into one of the flasks, to 
accompany us in our expedition. During this 
time, I was preparing the boat for another 
journey to the vessel, to bring away a 
sufficient quantity of planks and timbers for the 
bridge. After breakfast we set out; and 
this time I took with me Ernest as well as 
Fritz, that we might accomplish our object 
in a shorter time. We rowed stoutly till we 
reached the current, which soon drew us on 
beyond the bay; but scarcely had we passed 
a little islet, lying to one side of us, than we 
perceived a prodigious quantity of sea-gulls 
and other birds, whose various and 
discordant sounds so disagreeably assailed us, that 
we were obliged to stop our ears. Fritz 
would instantly have fired upon them, if I 
had not prevented him. I had a great 
curiosity to discover what could possibly be 
the reason of so numerous an assembly of 
these creatures. I therefore steered to the 
spot; but, finding that the boat made but 
little way, I hoisted my sail, that we might 
have the assistance of the wind.</p>

<p>To Ernest our expedition afforded the 
highest delight. He was in ecstasies at seeing 
the sail begin to swell, and the motion of 
the streamer in the air. Fritz, on his part, 
did not for a moment take his eyes from the 
islet where the birds had assembled. 
Presently he suddenly exclaimed: I see what 
it is; the birds are all pecking, tooth and 
beak, at a monstrous fish, which lies dead 
upon the soil.</p>

<p>Tooth! brother Fritz, replied Ernest; it 
must be curious to see birds with teeth. 
Fritz, however, was right; I approached, 
sufficiently near to step upon the land, and 
after bringing the boat to an anchor with a 
heavy stone, we walked cautiously and gently 
up to the birds. We soon perceived that 
the object which attracted them was in reality 
an enormous fish, which had been thrown by 
the sea upon the islet, and whose dead body 
lay invitingly there for all the birds which 
should pass that way. Indeed, so eagerly 
were they occupied with the feast, that though 
we were within the distance of half 
gun-shot, not one of them attempted to fly off. 
We observed with astonishment the extreme 
voracity of this plumed group; each bird 
was so intent upon its prey, that nothing 
could have been more easy than to have 
killed great numbers of them with our sticks 
alone: we did not, however, envy them 
their prize. Fritz did not cease to express 
his wonder at the monstrous size of the 
animal, and asked me by what means he 
could have got there.</p>

<p>I believe, answered I, you were yourself 
the means; there is every appearance that it 
is the very shark you so skilfully wounded 
yesterday. See, here are the two balls which 
you discharged at its head.</p>

<p>Yes, yes, it is the very same, said my 
young hero skipping about for joy; I well 
remember I had two balls in my gun, and 
here they are, lodged in his hideous head.</p>

<p>I grant it is hideous enough, continued I; 
its aspect even when dead makes one 
shudder with disgust, particularly when I 
recollect how easy it would have been for him to 
have devoured us. See what a horrible 
mouth he has, and what a singular kind of 
mustachio projecting above! and what a 
rough and prickly skin! one might almost 
use it for a file. Nor is he small of his 
species; for I would lay any wager that he 
measures more than twenty feet, from head 
to tail. We ought to be thankful to 
Providence, and a little to our Fritz also, for having 
delivered us from such a monster! But let 
us each take away with us a bit of his skin, 
for I have an idea that it may in some way 
or other be useful to us. But how to drive 
away these eager intruders, so as to get at 
him, is the difficulty.</p>

<p>Ernest instantly drew out the iron 
ramrod from his gun, and in a few moments 
killed several, by striking among them to 
right and left, while all the others took their 
flight. Fritz and I then advanced and cut 
several long strips of the skin from the head 
of the shark, with which we were proceeding 
to our boat, when I observed, lying on the 
ground, some planks and timbers which had 
recently been cast by the sea on this little 
island. I therefore made choice of such as 
seemed proper for my purpose; and, with the 
assistance of the crow and a lever which 
we had brought with us, I found means to 
get them into the boat, and thus spare 
ourselves the trouble of proceeding further to 
the vessel. I bound the timbers together, 
with the planks upon them, in the manner of 
a raft, and tied them to the end of the boat; 
so that, in consequence of this adventure, we 
were ready to return in about four hours 
after our departure, and might with justice 
boast of having done a good day’s work. I 
accordingly pushed again for the current, 
which soon drove us out to sea; then I 
tacked about, and resumed the direct route 
for the bay and for our place of 
embarkation, by this means avoiding the danger of 
touching upon shallows. All this succeeded 
to my utmost wishes; I unfurled my sail, 
and a brisk wind soon conveyed us to our 
landing-place.</p>

<p>While we were sailing, Fritz, at my 
request, had nailed the strips of skin we cut from 
the shark, to the mast to dry. Ernest had 
been employed in examining the birds he 
had killed with his ramrod. I cannot imagine, 
father, said he, why you should think they are 
not good to eat. What is their name?</p>

<p>I believe they are called sea-gulls, a bird 
that lives upon the carcases of other animals, 
and whose flesh for that reason must have 
contracted a bad flavour; there are many 
kinds of them, and all of so senseless a nature, 
as to fly down in flocks upon dead whales, 
even while the fishermen are round them 
cutting them up; and the birds try to seize upon 
small pieces of the fat, as they hold them in 
their hands; and they suffer themselves to 
be killed, rather than let go their prize.</p>

<p>They must indeed be stupid creatures, 
said Fritz, to have let Ernest kill them with 
the ramrod. But look here, father, you were 
wrong in telling me to nail my skins to the 
mast; for they have curled round in drying, 
and I cannot make them flat again.</p>

<p>That was precisely my intention, replied I, 
they will be much more useful to us round 
than flat: besides, you have still some left, 
which you may dry flat; and then we shall 
have a fine provision of shagreen, if we can 
find out a good method to rub off the sharp 
points, and afterwards to polish it.</p>

<p>I thought, said Ernest, that shagreen was 
made of ass’s skin. And you were not 
mistaken, rejoined I; the best shagreen is made 
in Turkey, Persia, and Tartary, from skin 
taken from the back of the ass and of horses. 
While the skin is yet moist, it is stretched 
upon a kind of hard fat; they then beat the 
skin, by which means the fat is incorporated, 
and gives the surface the appearance of a 
kind of file: but very good shagreen is also 
made from the skin of sea-fish, particularly 
in France.</p>

<p>Ernest asked his brother if he knew why 
the mouth of the shark is not, as in other 
animals, placed in the middle of the snout, 
but directly under. Fritz confessed his 
inability to answer this question. And for 
my part, continued he a little consequentially, 
all I know is how to kill them when the 
occasion presents itself. So pray, learned 
brother, be kind enough to let us share your 
information on the subject, for I take for 
granted, your question means that you can 
answer it yourself.</p>

<p>I suppose, rejoined Ernest, that the mouth 
of the shark is thus placed, with the 
intention of preventing him from depopulating 
the sea and the land. With so excessive a 
voraciousness of appetite as he possesses, 
nothing would escape him, if he had the 
power to seize his prey without turning his 
body; but as it is, there is time enough 
for a smaller animal to make his escape.</p>

<p>Well reasoned, my young philosopher, 
cried I; and though we should not always be 
able to comprehend the intention of the 
Creator in the objects which surround us, at 
least the conjectures we are induced to form 
respecting them, cannot fail of being a useful 
exercise to the mind.</p>

<p>I have already said we were once more 
landed safely on our shore, but no one of 
our family appeared. We called out to them as 
loud as we could, which was answered by the 
same sounds in return, and in a few minutes 
my wife appeared between her two little 
boys returning from the river, a rising piece 
of ground having concealed her from our 
sight: each carried a handkerchief in hand, 
which appeared filled with some new prize; 
and little Francis had a small fishing-net 
formed like a bag and strung upon a stick, 
which he carried on his shoulder. No 
sooner did they hear our voices, than they 
flew to meet us, astonished at our quick 
return. Jack reached us before the rest; and his 
first act was to open the handkerchief he 
held, and pour out a large number of lobsters 
at our feet: their mother and little Francis 
produced each as many more, forming all 
together a prodigious heap, and all alive; so 
that we were sure of excellent dinners for 
some days at least. Some of the animals 
tried to escape in different directions; and 
the boys in following them, were kept in 
full chase, sometimes pleased and 
sometimes angry; sometimes laughing, 
sometimes scolding at the bootless trouble they 
were engaged in; for no sooner had they 
seized on one deserter, than ten more had 
followed his example.</p>

<p>Now, have I not been very lucky, papa? 
said little Francis; for you must know it was 
I who found them out! Look, there are 
more than two hundred of them, and see 
how large they are, and what fine claws they 
have! I am sure they will be quite delicious!</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Excellent indeed, my little 
fellow, and particularly if it was your industry 
that first discovered them.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—Yes, father, it was Francis who 
saw them first; but it was I who ran to tell 
mamma, and it was I who fetched the net 
and put it to rights, and it was I who went 
up to my knees in water to catch them.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—You make a charming story of 
it together, my boys; but as it is an 
interesting subject, you may tell me as many 
particulars as you please; it is indeed an event 
of some importance for our kitchen, and I 
have great pleasure in looking forward to 
partaking of a dish of your providing.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—Well, papa, I will tell you. As 
soon as you were gone, mamma sat down 
outside the tent and began to work, while 
Francis and I took a little walk towards the 
river, to find out a proper place for you to 
begin the bridge.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Bravo! Mr. Architect, it is you 
then who will direct the workmen; but 
joking apart, I am much gratified to find 
that careless head of yours for once 
employed upon a useful subject. Well then, 
did you find a proper place for me to begin 
the bridge?</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—Yes, father, yes. But listen, and 
you will know all. We were advancing 
towards the river, and Francis was amusing 
himself with taking up some parti-coloured 
stones, calling out whenever he found one 
that seemed extraordinary: Jack, Jack, look 
what a beautiful stone I have found, all yellow! 
I am sure it must be gold, so I shall pound 
it, and make sand of it for my writing. As 
we reached the river, he saw a stone of this 
kind just upon the brink, and kneeling down 
with his head out over to take it up, he all 
at once cried out: Jack, Jack, Fritz’s jackall 
is covered all over with lobsters! Run as fast 
as you can. I sprang to him in an instant, 
and I saw not only the jackall covered with 
them, but legions more coming in with the 
stream. I ran to tell mamma, who 
immediately got the net which you brought from 
the vessel. Partly with this net, and partly 
with our hands, we caught those you see 
in a very few minutes; and we should 
have caught a much larger number if we had 
not heard you call, for the river is quite full 
of them. You took quite enough for once, 
my boy, said I: A little at a time is the 
maxim that suits us best, and I should even 
advise your taking the smallest of them back 
to the river, where they will grow larger; 
we shall still have sufficient for several 
magnificent repasts. This then, said I to myself, 
is a new source for our support: even here, 
in these arid regions, we find means to 
procure, not only the necessaries of life, but 
luxuries in abundance. May we never 
cease to evince our gratitude to Providence, 
by the exercise of a more than ordinary care 
and industry!</p>

<p>It was now our turn to relate the events of 
our voyage on the water. Ernest gave an 
account of his seagulls, but it did not inspire 
his mother with a desire for one of them for 
our next day’s dinner. We now put our 
remaining lobsters into the handkerchiefs 
and the net, and the boys took them to the 
place allotted for keeping our provisions. 
My wife set about dressing some of them, 
and in the mean time Fritz and I employed 
ourselves in untying the raft of timbers and 
planks, and in taking them out of the boat. 
I then imitated the example of the 
Laplanders, in harnessing their rein-deer for 
drawing their sledges. Instead of traces, halters, 
<abbr>&amp;c.</abbr>, I put a piece of rope with a running 
knot at the end, round the neck of the ass, 
and passed the other end between its legs, 
to which I tied the piece of wood which I 
wished to be removed. The cow was 
harnessed in the same manner, and we were 
thus enabled to carry our materials, piece by 
piece, to the spot which our architect Jack 
had chosen at the river, as the most eligible 
for our bridge; and to say the truth, I 
thought his judgement excellent; it was a 
place where the shore on each side was 
steep, and of equal height; there was even 
on our side, an old trunk of a tree lying on 
the ground, on which I rested my principal 
timber.</p>

<p>Now then, boys, said I, the first thing is 
to see if our timbers are long enough to reach 
to the other side: by my eye I should think 
they are; but if I had a surveyor’s plane, we 
might be quite sure, instead of working at a 
venture.</p>

<p>But my mother has some balls of 
packthread with which she measured the height 
of the giant tree, interrupted Ernest, and 
nothing would be more easy than to tie a 
stone to the end of one of them, and throw 
it to the other side of the river; then we 
could draw it to the very brink, and thus 
obtain the exact length that would be 
required for our timbers.</p>

<p>Your idea is excellent, cried I; nothing 
gives me more pleasure than to see you 
exercise your invention; run quickly and fetch 
the packthread. He returned without loss 
of time; the stone was tied to its end, and 
thrown across as we had planned; we drew 
it gently back to the river edge, marking the 
place where the bridge was to rest; we next 
measured the string, and found that the 
distance from one side to the other was 
eighteen feet. It appeared to me necessary, that to 
give a sufficient solidity to the timbers, I must 
allow three feet at each end of extra length 
for fixing them, amounting therefore in all 
to twenty-four feet; and I was fortunate 
enough to find that many of those we had 
brought, did not fall short of this length. 
There now remained the difficulty of 
conducting them across the stream; but we 
determined to discuss this part of the subject 
while we ate our dinner, which had been 
waiting for us more than an hour.</p>

<p>We all now proceeded homewards, and 
entering the kitchen, we found our good 
steward had prepared a large dish of lobsters 
for us; but before she would let us taste 
them, she insisted we should see another 
useful labour she had been employed about; 
she accordingly displayed two sacks intended 
for the ass, which she had seamed with 
packthread; the work she assured us, had with 
difficulty been accomplished, since for want 
of a needle large enough to carry packthread, 
she had been obliged to make a hole with a 
nail for every stitch: we might therefore judge 
by her perseverance in such a task, or the 
ardour with which she longed to see her 
plan of a removal executed. She received 
on this occasion, as was well her due, 
abundance of compliments and thanks from her 
companions, and also a little good-humoured 
raillery. For this time, we hurried through 
our meal, all being deeply interested in the 
work we were about to undertake, and 
concerning which, each gave his advice without 
the least ceremony. The impatience we all 
felt to begin, scarcely left us time to strip 
the lobsters of their shells, each thinking 
only of the part which might be assigned 
him towards the execution of the <i>Nonpareil</i>; 
for this, for mutual encouragement, was the 
name we gave our bridge, even before it was 
in existence.</p>

<p>Having consulted together as to the means 
of laying our timbers across the river, the 
first thing I did, was to attach one of them 
to the trunk of the tree of which I have 
already spoken, by a strong cord, long enough 
to turn freely round the trunk; I then fastened 
another cord to the other end of the beam; 
this cord I fastened round a stone, and then 
threw the stone across the river. I next 
passed the river as I had done before, furnished 
with a pulley, which I secured to a tree; I 
passed my second cord through the pulley, 
and recrossing the river with this cord in my 
hand, I contrived to harness the ass and the 
cow to the end of the cord. I next drove 
the animals from the bank of the river; they 
resisted at first, but I made them go by force 
of drawing. I first fixed one end of the 
beam firm to the trunk of the tree, and 
then they drew along the other end, so as 
gradually to advance over the river: 
presently, to my great joy, I saw it touch the 
other side, and at length become fixt and 
firm by its own weight. In a moment Fritz 
and Jack leaped upon the timber, and, in spite 
of my paternal fears, crossed the stream with 
a joyful step upon this narrow but effective 
bridge.</p>

<p>The first timber being thus laid, the 
difficulty of our undertaking was considerably 
diminished; a second and a third were fixt in 
succession, and with the greatest ease. Fritz 
and I, standing on opposite sides of the river, 
placed them at such distances from each 
other, as was necessary to form a broad and 
handsome bridge: what now remained to be 
done, was to lay some short planks across them 
quite close to each other, which we executed 
so expeditiously, that our whole undertaking 
was completed in a much shorter time than 
I should have imagined possible. The 
reader should have seen our young workmen, 
to form the least conception of the delight 
they felt: they jumped, and danced, and 
played a thousand antics, and uttered a 
thousand joyful sounds upon their bridge. 
For my own part, I could hardly restrain 
myself from joining in these demonstrations of 
their perfect happiness; and my wife, who 
had been the mover of all our operations, 
was as little disposed to a silent calm 
enjoyment of our success, as any of the rest: 
she ran to one, and then to another, 
embracing each in turn, and was never tired of 
passing and repassing on our piece of 
workmanship, which was every where safe and 
even, and at least ten feet in breadth. I 
had not fastened the cross planks to each 
other, for they appeared to be close and 
firm without it; and besides, I 
recollected that in case of danger from any kind 
of invasion, we could with the greater ease 
remove them, and thus render the passage 
of the river more difficult. Our labour 
however had occasioned us so much fatigue, 
that we found ourselves unable for that day 
to enter upon new exertions; and the 
evening beginning to set in, we returned to our 
home, where we partook heartily of an 
excellent supper, and went to bed.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap09" id="chap09" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER IX.<br/>
<small><em>Change of abode.</em></small></h2>

<p><span class="smcap">As</span> soon as we were all up and had 
breakfasted, the next morning, I assembled all the 
members of my family together, to take 
with them a solemn farewell of this our first 
place of reception from the horrible disaster 
of the shipwreck. I confess that for my 
own part I could not leave it without much 
regret; it was a place of greater safety than 
we were likely again to meet with; it was 
also nearer to the vessel: but it was 
sufficient for me to know that the kind and 
faithful companion of my misfortunes had 
conceived an unalterable distaste for it, to 
incline me to yield my own opinion and my 
wishes. I should indeed consider myself 
unworthy of such a partner, if I could have 
felt hesitation in a point of so much interest 
to her feelings. I thought it right to 
represent strongly to my sons, particularly to 
the youngest, the danger of exposing 
themselves as they had done the evening before, 
along the river. We are now going, 
continued I, to inhabit an unknown country, 
which is not so well protected by nature as 
that we are leaving; we are unacquainted 
both with the soil and its inhabitants, 
whether human creatures or beasts; it is 
therefore necessary to use the utmost caution, to 
make it a rule never to remain separate from 
each other; particularly you young ones 
must take care not to run on before, or stay 
too far behind. This you must promise, 
my boys. Having unburdened my mind of 
this necessary charge, we prepared for 
setting out. I directed my sons to assemble 
our whole flock of animals, and to leave the 
ass and the cow to me, that I might load 
them with the sacks as before concerted; I 
had filled these at the two ends, and made a 
slit longways in the middle of each of them, 
and to each side of the slits I tied several 
long pieces of cord, which crossing each 
other and being again brought round and 
fastened, served to hold the sacks firmly on 
the back of the animal. We next began to 
put together all the things we should stand 
most in need of, for the two or three first 
days, in our new abode; working 
implements, kitchen utensils, the captain’s service 
of plate, and a small provision of 
butter, <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr> <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr> I put these articles into the 
two ends of each sack, taking care that the 
sides should be equally heavy, and then 
fastened them on. I next added our 
hammocks and other coverings to complete 
the load, and we were about to begin 
our march when my wife stopped me. I 
cannot prevail upon myself, said she, to leave 
our fowls behind us to pass the night by 
themselves; for I fear they would infallibly 
become the prey of the jackalls. We must, 
somehow or other, contrive a place for them 
among the luggage, and also one for our 
little Francis, who cannot walk so far, 
and on that account would not fail to 
interrupt our speed. There is also my enchanted 
bag, which I recommend to your particular 
care, said she, smiling, for who can tell 
what may yet pop out of it for your good 
pleasure!</p>

<p>Women, for their part, never fail to have 
more things to carry than there are places to 
put them in, said I, also laughing: however, 
let us see how handsomely I shall be able to 
provide for what belongs to you, my love. 
Fortunately, I had already thought of making 
the ass’s load as light as possible, foreseeing 
that it would be necessary he should carry 
our little one a part of the way. I now 
accordingly placed the child upon his back, 
fixing the enchanted bag in such a way as to 
support him, and I tied them together upon 
the ass with so many cords, that the animal 
might even have galloped without any danger 
of his falling off.</p>

<p>In the mean while, the other boys had 
been running after the cocks and hens and the 
pigeons, but had not succeeded in catching 
one of them; so they returned empty-handed 
and in ill-humour. Little blockheads! said 
their mother, see how you have heated 
yourselves in running after these untractable 
creatures! I could have put you in a way to 
catch them in a moment; come along with 
me, and see.—Yes, yes, you may think so, 
mother, said Jack, a little sulky, but I will 
give you leave to roast me in the place of the 
first fowl that you shall be able to catch. 
Poor Jack, said she laughing, you will then 
soon be on the spit, I can tell you; which 
would really be a pity, considering what 
better things we might do with you; though, 
to say the truth, you have not shown that 
you have more brains than a goose, in 
thinking to catch the animals by running after 
them in this manner. She now stepped into 
the tent, and brought out two handfuls of 
peas and oats, and by pronouncing a few 
words of invitation in the accustomed tone, 
the birds all flocked round her in a moment. 
She then walked slowly before them, 
dropping the grain all the way, till they had 
followed her into the tent. When she 
perceived that they were all in the inside, and 
busily employed in picking up the grain, she 
shut the entrance, and caught one after the 
other without the smallest difficulty. The 
boys looked at each other half-ashamed, 
though much amused with the adventure. 
Grant me a reprieve from the spit, mother, 
cried Jack, and I will do all I can to help 
you in securing your prisoners. Accordingly, 
he set himself to work, and had soon caught 
the whole. They were then tied by the feet 
and wings, put into a basket covered with a 
net, and placed in triumph on the top of our 
luggage. Ernest suggested the placing two 
bent sticks arch-ways across the basket, and 
throwing a blanket over it, that the want of 
light might incline them to repose; for, with 
the clatter they made, it was impossible to 
hear each other speak.</p>

<p>We packed up every thing we were 
obliged to leave, and placed it in the tent, which 
we carefully closed, and, for greater 
security, fastened down the ends of the 
sail-cloth at the entrance, by driving stakes 
through them into the ground. We ranged 
a number of vessels, both full and empty, 
round the tent, to serve as a rampart, and 
thus we confided to the protection of heaven 
our remaining treasures. At length we set 
ourselves in motion: each of us, great and 
small, carried a gun upon his shoulder, and 
a game bag at his back. Children are 
always fond of a change of place; ours were 
full of joy and good-humour; nor was their 
mother less affected with the same cause; 
she walked before with her eldest son, the 
cow and the ass immediately behind them; 
the goat conducted by Jack came next; the 
little monkey was seated on the back of his 
nurse, and made a thousand grimaces. After 
the goats, came Ernest, conducting the sheep, 
while I, in my capacity of general 
superintendant, followed behind and brought up 
the rear; the dogs for the most part paraded 
backwards and forwards, thus seeming to 
play the part of adjutants. Our march was 
slow, and there was something solemn and 
patriarchal in the spectacle we exhibited; I 
fancied we must resemble our forefathers 
journeying in the deserts, accompanied by 
their families and their possessions. Now then, 
Fritz, cried I, you have the specimen you 
wished for of the patriarchal mode of life; 
what do you think of it? I like it much, 
father, replied he: I never read the Bible 
without wishing I had lived in those good times.</p>

<p>And I too, said Ernest, I am quite 
delighted with it, I cannot help fancying 
myself not merely a patriarch but a Tartar, or 
an Arab, and that we are about to discover 
I know not how many new and extraordinary 
things. Is it not true, father, that the Tartars 
and the Arabs pass their lives in 
journeying from one place to another, and 
carrying all they have about them?</p>

<p>It is certainly for the most part true, 
Ernest, replied I, and they are 
denominated wandering tribes; but they generally 
perform their journeys attended by horses 
and camels, by means of which they can 
proceed a little faster, than if, like us, they 
had only an ass and a cow. For my part, I 
should not be sorry if I were quite sure that 
the pilgrimage we are now making, would be 
our last.</p>

<p>And I too am of your way of thinking, 
cried my wife, and I hope that in our new 
abode we shall be so well satisfied with the 
shade of such luxuriant trees, that we shall 
not be inclined to rove. Let us, however, 
think as little as possible of the fatigue 
which seems to be our lot today, since 
tomorrow you will all be ready to thank me 
for having been the occasion of it.</p>

<p>Be assured, my dear, said I, that we have 
adopted your plans, and endure the fatigue 
they occasion, with cheerfulness, and that 
one and all, are already grateful to you for 
their future happiness; which happiness will 
be still increased by the reflection, that to 
your kind and anxious exertions it has been 
that we are indebted for it.</p>

<p>We had now reached our bridge, and 
advanced half way across it, when the sow for 
the first time took the fancy of joining us, 
and, by the uncouth and listless figure she 
made, contributed to the pictorial effect of 
our procession. At the moment of our 
departure, she had shown herself so restive and 
indocile, that we had been compelled to 
leave her behind us; but when she saw that 
we had all left the place, she set out 
voluntarily to overtake us: but she took care to 
apprize us, by her continual grunting, that 
she disapproved of our migration.</p>

<p>On the other side of the river, we experienced 
an inconvenience wholly unexpected. 
The nutritious aspect of the grass, which grew 
here in profusion, was too strong a 
temptation for our animals, who, unable to resist, 
strayed from us in every direction to feed 
voluptuously upon it; so that, without the 
assistance of our dogs, we should not have 
been able to bring them back to the line of 
our procession. These active creatures were 
of great use to us on this occasion, and when 
every thing was restored to proper order, we 
were able to continue our journey. For fear 
however of a similar occurrence, I directed 
our march to the left, along the sea side, 
where there was not a sufficient quantity of 
grass to attract them.</p>

<p>But scarcely had we advanced a few steps 
on the sands, when our two dogs, which had 
stayed behind among the grass, set up a loud 
barking, mixt at intervals with howling, as if 
they had been wounded, or were engaged in 
an encounter with some formidable animal. 
Fritz in an instant lifted his gun to his cheek, 
and was ready to fire; Ernest, always 
somewhat timid, drew back to his mother’s side; 
Jack ran bravely after Fritz with his gun 
upon his shoulder; while I, fearing the dogs 
might be attacked by some dangerous wild 
beast, prepared myself to run to their 
assistance. But youth is always full of ardour; 
and in spite of all my exhortations that they 
would advance with caution, my boys, eager 
for the event, made but three jumps to the 
place from which the noise proceeded. In an 
instant Jack had turned to meet me, clapping 
his hands and calling out, Come quickly, 
father, come quickly, here is a monstrous 
porcupine!</p>

<p>I soon reached the spot, and perceived that 
it was really as they said, bating a little 
exaggeration. The dogs were running to and 
fro with bloody noses, about the animal; and 
when they approached too near him, he made 
a frightful noise, and darted his quills so 
suddenly at them, that a great number had 
penetrated the skins of our valiant dogs, and 
remained sticking in them; and it was no 
doubt the pain they occasioned, which made 
them howl so violently.</p>

<p>While we were looking on, Jack 
determined on an attack, which succeeded 
marvellously well. He took one of the pistols 
which he carried in his belt, and aimed it so 
exactly at the head of the porcupine, that he 
fell dead the instant he fired, and before we 
had a notion of what he was about. This 
success raised Jack to the height of joy and 
vanity; while Fritz, on the other hand, felt 
a sensation of jealousy almost to shedding 
tears. Is it right, Jack, said he, that such a 
little boy as you, should venture to fire off a 
pistol in this manner? How easily might 
you have wounded my father or me, or one 
of the dogs, by so rash an action! Oh yes, 
to be sure, and what do you suppose hindered 
me from seeing that you were all behind me? 
Do you think I fired without taking care of 
that? Do you take me for an idiot? The 
porcupine could tell you about that, brother 
Fritz, if he could but speak. My first fire—pop—dead 
as a herring! This is something 
like, brother Fritz, and you would be glad 
enough to have had such a chance yourself!</p>

<p>Fritz only replied by a motion of his 
head. He was out of humour, because his 
younger brother had deprived him of the 
honour of the day; and he sought a subject 
of complaint against him, as the wolf did 
with the poor little lamb. Come, come, 
boys, said I, let me hear no envious speeches 
and no reproaches; luck for one to-day, for 
another to-morrow; but all for the common 
good. Jack was, perhaps, a little imprudent, 
but you must allow that he showed both 
skill and courage; let us not therefore tarnish 
the glory of his action. We now all got 
round the extraordinary animal, on whom 
nature has bestowed a strong defence, by 
arming his body, all over, with long spears. 
The boys were absolutely at a loss what 
means to use for carrying away his carcase. 
They thought of dragging it along the 
ground; but as often as they attempted to 
take hold, there was nothing but squalling, 
and running to show the marks made by his 
quills on their hands. We must leave him 
behind, said they; but it is a great pity.</p>

<p>Not for an empire, cried Jack, shall he be 
left there, for my mother must have a sight 
of him. In saying this, he tied one corner 
of his handkerchief round the neck of the 
animal, and drew him by the other to the 
place where we had left his mother in care 
of our possessions, and who had been in 
great uneasiness at our long absence.</p>

<p>Here is the monster, mother, said he, 
armed with his hundred thousand spears; 
but I was a match for him, and at one fire 
too! His flesh is excellent food; at least 
papa says so.</p>

<p>Ernest began, with his usual coolness, to 
examine the animal minutely. After having 
looked at him a long while, he said, He is 
a most singular animal; his mouth contains 
the <i>dentes incisores</i>, and his ears and feet are 
much like those of a man.</p>

<p>Ah! said Jack, if you had seen how he 
darted out all his quills against the dogs, and 
the noise they made, rattling one against 
another! He is a most terrible creature; 
but what of that? I did not mind going up 
to him, and I dispatched two or three balls 
at his head, and it was over with him in an 
instant!</p>

<p>He cannot be so terrible an animal, said 
Ernest, if it was so easy for a mere child to 
destroy him. <i>A mere child!</i> replied Jack, 
much mortified, and drawing up his head. It 
was plain that his conquest had added half a 
foot to his height, in his own imagination.</p>

<p>While the boys were disputing, my wife 
and I had hastened to relieve the dogs, by 
drawing out the quills and examining their 
wounds. Having done this, we joined the 
group which surrounded the porcupine; Jack 
taking upon him to do the honours, as if he 
was showing the animal at a fair. Observe, 
cried he, what a terrible creature it is! how 
long and hard his quills are! and see what 
strange feet he has! I am sure he must 
have run like a hare: but I killed him for all 
that! And what a singular sort of crest he 
has on his head! Upon my word, I like my 
day’s work vastly.</p>

<p>That, said I, is the reason why naturalists 
call him the crested porcupine. But now 
tell me, my young hero, were you not afraid, 
in going so near him, that he would dart 
some of his quills at you?</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—Oh no, papa, I knew that the 
stories about his quills, were merely 
fabulous.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—But you saw that many of them 
had stuck in the dogs, and this, surely, was 
no fable.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—That was because the dogs 
attacked the animal furiously from behind, 
thus putting themselves exactly in the way 
of his quills, so that it is not extraordinary 
that they should be wounded by them; but 
I took care to attack him in front, in which 
direction I knew he would not shoot them, 
so I had no reason to be afraid. Is it not 
also a fable, father, that when they escape 
the hunter, they throw their quills as they 
run, and sometimes kill him with them?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—This account is, I believe, in a 
great measure untrue; but it is not 
improbable that it was such an occurrence as we 
just now met with, which first gave rise to 
the notion. An observation no less singular 
than true, has been made, that natural history, 
whose basis ought to be the strictest truth, 
has given birth to more fables than 
mythology itself. In general, mankind are fond of 
the marvellous, and the composed march of 
nature is uninteresting to them, from its 
simple uniformity. They accordingly dress 
her with all the singularities and 
extravagancies of their own imaginations. But tell 
me, Jack, what you mean to do with your 
prize? Are we to take it with us, or leave it 
here?</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—Oh, take it with us, take it with 
us, father, I entreat, for you say its flesh is 
good to eat.</p>

<p>I could not resist his pressing importunity, 
and I resolved to lay the porcupine on the 
back of the ass, behind little Francis, first 
having wrapped his bloody head in a quantity 
of grass, and then rolled him up in a blanket 
to protect my boy from his quills. We now 
resumed our journey, but had not proceeded 
far, when the ass began to kick furiously 
with his hind legs; tore himself away from 
my wife, who was guiding him, and set off 
full gallop, braying so loud, as almost to 
deafen us, and scampering from side to side 
in so extraordinary a way, that the boys were 
thrown into fits of laughter; in which my 
wife and I should probably have joined, if 
we had not conceived the idea, that the 
situation of our little Francis was not quite safe. 
A sign we made to the dogs, made them set 
off like lightning after the deserter, whom 
they in a moment overtook, and stopped his 
way with a tremendous barking. They 
would no doubt have attacked him violently, 
if we had not ourselves run quickly to the 
spot, to intimidate them. We took our boy 
from the ass’s back, delighted to find that 
(thanks to the care I had taken in tying him 
on securely) he had kept his seat, and had 
scarcely even experienced any alarm. But 
tell me, Francis, said I jocosely, have you 
been clapping spurs to your horse, or what 
have you done to make him set off on a 
gallop in this manner? I no sooner 
pronounced these words, than suddenly I 
recollected the porcupine. I immediately 
examined if the quills had not penetrated 
through the covering in which I wrapped it: 
this I found to be the very thing: though I 
had folded it three times double, the quills 
had pierced through all, and produced 
the effect of the sharpest spur on the 
poor animal. I soon found a remedy for 
this inconvenience, by placing my wife’s 
enchanted bag, which was filled with articles 
of a nature to be absolutely impenetrable, 
between the ass’s back and the dead animal. 
I now restored Francis to his place, 
exhorting him to keep in an upright posture, and 
we then resumed our journey.</p>

<p>Fritz had run on before with his gun, 
hoping he should meet with some animal of 
prey. What he most desired, was to find 
one or two of those large bustards which 
his mother had described to him. We 
followed him at our leisure, taking care not to 
expose our health by unnecessary fatigue; 
till at last, without further accident or 
adventure, we arrived at the place of the giant 
trees. Such, indeed, we found them, and 
our astonishment exceeded all description. 
Good heavens! what trees! what a height! 
what trunks! I never heard of any so 
prodigious! exclaimed one and all. Nothing 
can be more rational than your admiration, 
answered I, measuring them with my eyes 
as I spoke. I must confess I had not myself 
formed an idea of the reality. To you be 
all the honour, my dear wife, for the 
discovery of this agreeable abode, in which we 
shall enjoy so many comforts and 
advantages. The great point we have to gain, is 
the fixing a tent large enough to receive us 
all, in one of these trees, by which means we 
shall be perfectly secure from the invasion 
of wild beasts. I defy even one of the 
bears, who are so famous for mounting 
trees, to climb up by a trunk so immense, 
and so destitute of branches.</p>

<p>We began now to release our animals 
from their burdens, having first thrown our 
own on the grass. We next used the 
precaution of tying their two fore legs together 
with a cord, that they might not go far away, 
or lose themselves. We restored the fowls 
to liberty; and then, seating ourselves upon 
the grass, we held a family council on the 
subject of our future establishment. I was 
myself somewhat uneasy on the question 
of our safety during the ensuing night; for I 
was ignorant of the nature of the extensive 
country I beheld around me, and of what 
chance there might be of our being attacked 
by different kinds of wild beasts. I 
accordingly observed to my wife, that I would 
make an endeavour for us all to sleep in the 
tree that very night. While I was 
deliberating with her on the subject, Fritz, who 
thought of nothing but his sporting, and of 
his desire to take his revenge of the 
porcupine adventure, had stolen away to a short 
distance, and we heard the report of a gun. 
This would have alarmed me, if, at the same 
moment, we had not recognised Fritz’s 
voice crying out, I touched him! I touched 
him! and in a moment we saw him running 
towards us, holding a dead animal of 
uncommon beauty by the paws. Father, father, 
look, here is a superb tiger cat, said he, 
proudly raising it in the air, to show it to the 
best advantage. Bravo! bravo! cried I; 
bravo, Nimrod the undaunted! Your 
achievement will call forth the unbounded 
gratitude of our cocks and hens and pigeons, for 
you have rendered them what no doubt they 
will think an important service. If you had 
not killed this animal, he would no doubt 
have destroyed in the course of one night 
our whole stock of poultry. I charge you 
look about in every direction, and try to 
destroy as many of the species as fall in your 
way, for we cannot have more dangerous 
intruders.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—I wish, father, you would be so 
good as to tell me why God created wild 
beasts, since man seems to be appointed to 
destroy them?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—This indeed is a question I 
cannot answer, and we must be contented with 
taking care to arm ourselves against them: 
neither can I explain to you, why many other 
things, which to us appear to have only 
injurious qualities, have been created. With 
respect to beasts of prey, I am inclined to 
believe, that one of the ends of 
Providence, in giving them existence, is their 
embellishing and varying the works of the 
creation; of maintaining a necessary equilibrium 
among creatures endowed with life; and 
lastly, to furnish man, who comes naked into 
the world, with materials for protecting him 
from the cold, by the use of their skins, 
which become the means of exchange and 
commerce between different nations. We 
may also add, that the care of protecting 
himself from the attacks of ferocious animals, 
invigorates the physical and moral powers of 
man, supports his activity, and renders him 
inventive and courageous. The ancient 
Germans, for example, were rendered robust 
and valiant warriors, through their habitual 
exercises in the field, which enabled them, at 
a time of need, to defend their country and 
their liberty, with as little difficulty, as they 
would have experienced in killing a wolf or 
a bear.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—But what do you say of the insects, 
which feed on living human flesh, and who 
neither contribute their skins for the wants 
of man, nor to his health by exciting him to 
pursue them in the field? Of what use are 
such creatures as these?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—They serve, my son, to 
exercise his patience, and to compel him to a 
constant cleanliness, which contributes to a 
perfect state of health. But let us return to 
the animal Fritz has killed. Tell me all the 
particulars of your adventure. How did you 
kill him?</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—With my pistol, father, as Jack 
killed the porcupine.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Was he on this tree, just by 
us?</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Yes, father, I had been observing 
that something moved among the branches. 
I went softly as near as I could; and on 
seeing him, I knew him for a tiger cat. I 
immediately fired, when he fell at my feet 
wounded and furious; and then I fired a 
second time, and killed him.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—You were very fortunate in 
escaping thus, for he might easily have 
devoured you. You should always take care, 
in aiming at animals of this kind, to be at a 
greater distance.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Why so, father? I might have 
missed him if I had been further off. I, on 
the contrary, tried to be as near him as 
possible, and fired close to his ears.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—This was acting in the same 
way as your brother Jack, whom you so 
much derided for his want of care, and may 
serve you as a lesson not to blame in your 
brothers, what you would yourself be perhaps 
obliged to do in the same situation; and not 
to interrupt their joy with unkind reflections, 
but rather to partake with them the pleasure 
of their success.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Well, father; all I now ask of 
Jack is, that he will be so good as not to 
spoil the beautiful skin of this animal, as he 
did that of the jackall. Only observe what 
beautiful figures it is marked with, and the 
fine effect of the black and yellow spots; 
the most richly manufactured stuff could 
not exceed it in magnificence. What is the 
exact name of the animal?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—You may for the present give it 
the name of the tiger cat. I do not, however, 
think that it is the animal which is so 
denominated at the Cape of Good Hope; I 
rather think it is the margay, a native of 
America, an animal of extremely vicious 
dispositions and singular voraciousness; 
he destroys all the birds of the forest, and 
neither a man, a sheep, or goat, that should 
fall in his way, could escape his rapacity. In 
the name of humanity, therefore, we ought 
to be thankful to you, for having destroyed 
so formidable an enemy.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—All the recompense I ask, father, 
is, that you will let me keep the skin; and 
I wish you would tell me what use I can 
make of it.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—One idea occurs to me, and it 
is this:—you must skin the animal 
yourself, taking the greatest care not to injure it 
in the operation, particularly those parts 
which cover the fore legs and the tail. If 
you will do this, you may make yourself a 
belt with it, like your brother Jack’s, except 
that it will be much more beautiful. The 
odd pieces will serve admirably to make 
some cases to contain our utensils for the 
table, such as knives, forks, spoons; and as 
they will be light, we can easily carry them 
about with us, should we make any further 
excursions. It is not amiss, in such a 
situation as ours, to exercise ourselves in all 
kinds of trades and manual labour, and to 
do every thing with the utmost care, and in 
the best manner possible. Man, the lord of 
the creation, should always aim at perfection. 
Go, then, boy, and put away its bloody 
head, and we will see how to set about 
preparing the skin.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—And I too, father, will make some 
cases with the skin of my porcupine.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—And why should you not, my 
boy? The skin of the tiger cat, can only 
furnish us with four, and we ought to have 
six at least, which will be one a-piece. So 
set to work, and show us quickly what you 
can perform. I should like for you to 
preserve some of the quills of your porcupine 
for me; for I think I can contrive to 
convert them into packing-needles, or into 
arrows; and what bits of skin are left, may 
serve to repair the dogs’ collars when they 
begin to wear; or, which would be a 
masterpiece of invention, might be joined together 
and made into a sort of coat of mail, as a 
protection to them when they have to 
encounter wild beasts.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—Oh! yes, father, I will make the 
coat of mail, the coat of mail! Ernest, 
Fritz, did you hear what papa said? Why, 
our dogs will look like a couple of knights 
of chivalry. The idea is most excellent; 
how I shall like to see them with a coat of 
mail!</p>

<p>The boys left me no moment of repose 
till I had shown them how to take off the 
skins of the animals without tearing them. 
In the mean while, Ernest looked about for 
a flat stone as a sort of foundation for a 
fire-place, and little Francis collected some pieces 
of dry wood for his mother to light a fire. 
Ernest was not long in finding what he 
wanted, and then he ran to join us and give 
us his assistance, or rather to reason right or 
wrong on the subject of skinning animals; 
and then on that of trees; making various 
comments and inquiries, respecting the real 
name of those we intended to inhabit. It is 
my opinion, said he, that they are really and 
simply, enormously large hazel trees; see if 
the leaf is not of exactly the same form. 
But that is no proof, interrupted I; for many 
trees bear leaves of the same shape, but 
nevertheless are of different kinds. Besides, 
it appears to me, that there is not so great a 
resemblance as you think, between the leaves 
of the trees which grow here, and those of 
the hazel, the former being of a paler colour, 
and white underneath. I recollect too, that 
there is the wild mango and also the fig-tree, 
whose roots grow in the same manner as our 
giant trees, forming a beautiful arch, and 
sometimes reaching to an immeasurable 
height.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—I thought, father, that the 
mango tree only grew on the sea-shore, and 
in marshy soils?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—You were not mistaken; it is 
the black mango tree which loves the water. 
But there is, besides, the red mango, which 
bears its fruit in bunches, something like 
our currant bushes. This kind of the mango 
tree, is found at a considerable distance from 
the sea, and its wood is used for dyeing red. 
There is a third sort, which is called the 
mountain mango, or yellow wood, and this 
is the kind, whose roots produce the beautiful 
arches you now see around us.</p>

<p>We conversed thus as we proceeded with 
our work; for it was always my endeavour 
to compensate to my children, as much as I 
was able, our want of books for their 
instruction. Little Francis presently came 
running loaded with dry branches for his 
mother, with his mouth crammed full of 
something, and calling out, Mamma, 
mamma, I have found a nice fruit to eat, and I 
have brought you home some of it!</p>

<p>Little glutton! replied his mother quite 
alarmed, what have you got there? For 
Heaven’s sake, do not swallow, in this 
imprudent manner, the first thing that falls in your 
way; for by this means you may be poisoned, 
and then you would die. She made him 
open his mouth, and took out with her 
finger, what he was eating with so keen a relish. 
With some difficulty she drew out the 
remains of a fig. A fig! exclaimed I: where 
did you find it? Thank God, this is no 
poison! But nevertheless, remember, Francis, 
that you are never to put any thing into your 
mouth, without first showing it to your 
mother or to me. And now you may tell us 
where you got this fig.</p>

<p><i>Francis.</i>—I got it among the grass, papa; 
and there are a great many more. I thought 
it must be good to eat, for the fowls and the 
pigeons, and even the pig, came to the place 
and ate them in large quantities.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—You see then, my dear, said I 
to my wife, that our beautiful trees are 
fig-trees, at least the kind which are thus named 
at the Antilles; for they do not in the least 
resemble the tree called by that name in 
Europe, except that they both bear a fruit 
having some little resemblance to each other. 
I now recollect that the leaves of the mango 
tree are of a round form, and not oval like 
these. I took this occasion to give the boys 
another lesson, on the necessity of being 
cautious in an unknown country, and never 
to venture on tasting any thing they met with, 
till they had seen it eaten by birds and 
monkeys. At the word monkeys, they all ran 
to visit the little orphan, whom they found 
seated on a root of a tree, and examining 
with the oddest grimaces and the most 
singular expression of curiosity, the half-skinned 
porcupine and the tiger cat, which lay near 
him. Francis offered him a fig, which he 
first turned round and round, then smelled 
at it, and concluded by eating it voraciously. 
Bravo, bravo! Mr. Monkey, exclaimed the 
boys, clapping their hands; so then these 
figs are good to eat! Thank you, Mr. 
Monkey; for, after your wise decision, we shall 
make a charming feast on them.</p>

<p>In the mean while, my wife had been 
employed in making a fire, in putting on the 
pot, and preparing for our dinner. She 
had put a large piece of the porcupine into 
it, and the rest she had laid in salt for another 
time. The tiger cat was bestowed upon the 
dogs, who waited impatiently to receive it. 
While our dinner was dressing, I employed 
my time in making some packing-needles with 
the quills of the porcupine. I put the point of 
a large nail into the fire till it was red hot; then 
taking hold of it with some wet linen in my 
hand, by way of guard, I with great ease 
perforated the thick end of the quills with it. I 
had soon the pleasure of presenting my wife 
with a large packet of long, stout, needles, 
which were the more valuable in her 
estimation, as she had formed the intention of 
contriving some better harnessing for our 
animals, and had been perplexed how to set 
about them without some larger needles. I, 
however, recommended to her to be frugal 
in her use of the packthread, for which I 
should soon have so urgent a need, in 
constructing a ladder for ascending the tree we 
intended to inhabit. I had singled out the 
highest and thickest fig-tree; and while we 
were waiting for dinner, I made the boys 
try how high they could throw their sticks 
and stones in it. I also tried myself; but 
the very lowest branches were so far from 
the ground, that none of us could touch 
them. I perceived, therefore, that we should 
be under the necessity of inventing some 
method to reach so far, as, otherwise, it would 
be impossible to fasten the ends of my ladder 
to them. I allowed a short pause to my 
imagination on the subject, during which I assisted 
Jack and Fritz in carrying the skins of the 
two animals to the adjacent stream, where 
we confined them under water with some 
large stones. By this time we were called 
to dinner, and we all partook with pleasure 
of our porcupine, which had produced an 
excellent soup, and had no fault but being 
a little hard. My wife, however, could not 
prevail upon herself to eat of it; which 
occasioned Jack, who did the honours of the 
dish, a little mortification. My wife could 
not be brought to relent, but made her 
dinner on a slice of ham and some bread and 
cheese, under the shade of the trees which 
she had so much desired, and where she 
found the plainest repast delicious.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap10" id="chap10" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER X.<br/>
<small><em>Construction of a ladder.</em></small></h2>

<p><span class="smcap">Our</span> repast being ended, I observed to my 
wife, that I did not think it would be 
possible for us to sleep that night in the tree, and 
that we should therefore be obliged to lie on 
the ground. I however desired her 
immediately to begin preparing the harness for 
the animals, that they might go to the 
sea-shore and fetch the pieces of wood, and 
such articles as I might find necessary for 
enabling us to ascend the tree, if, contrary 
to my expectation, it should be found 
practicable. She lost not a moment in beginning 
her work; while I, in the mean time, set 
about suspending our hammocks to some 
of the arched roots of the trees, which I 
considered would be more convenient for 
passing the night than on the ground. I next 
spread a piece of sail-cloth large enough to 
cover them, to preserve us from the dew and 
from the insects. Having thus made the 
best provision I could for my family, I 
hastened with the two eldest boys, to the 
sea-shore, to examine what pieces of wood might 
have been thrown up by the waves, and to 
choose out such as were most proper for the 
steps of my ladder. The dry branches of the 
fig-tree I would not use, for they appeared to 
me too fragile for the purpose; and I had 
not observed any other kind of wood 
growing near, that was sufficiently solid. There 
were, no doubt, on the sands, numberless 
pieces, the quality of which was fit for my 
object; but, unfortunately, there was none 
that would not require considerable labour 
to be adapted to my purpose; and thus my 
undertaking would have experienced a 
considerable delay, if Ernest had not been lucky 
enough to discover a number of bamboo 
canes in a sort of bog, where they lay half 
covered with sand and mud. I took them 
out, and, with the boys’ assistance, 
completely cleared them from the dirt; and 
stripping off their leaves to examine them, I 
found to my great joy that they were 
precisely what I wanted. I then instantly began to 
cut them, with my hatchet, in pieces of four 
or five feet long; the boys bound them 
together in faggots proportioned to their strength 
for carrying them, and we prepared to 
return with them to our place of abode. I 
next secured some of the straight and most 
slender of the stalks, to make some arrows 
with, of which I knew I should stand in need. 
At some distance from the place where we 
stood, I perceived a sort of thicket, in which 
I hoped I might find some young twigs, 
which I thought might also be useful to me; 
I determined, however, first to examine them. 
We proceeded to the spot; but apprehending 
it might be the retreat of some dangerous 
reptile, or animal, we held our guns in 
readiness. Ponto, who had accompanied us, 
went before. We had hardly reached the 
thicket, when we observed him make several 
jumps, and throw himself furiously into the 
middle of the bushes; when instantly a 
troop of large-sized flamingoes<sup><a id="asterisk2text"/><a href="#asterisk2" class="pginternal">*</a></sup> sprang out, 
and with a loud rustling noise mounted into 
the air. Fritz, always too ready with his 
gun, instantly fired, when two of the birds 
fell down among the bushes: one of them 
was quite dead, but the other was only 
slightly wounded in the wing: he soon got 
upon his feet, and giving himself a shake, 
and finding that he could not fly, he began 
to make use of his long legs, and to run so 
fast towards the water, that we were afraid 
he would escape us. Fritz, in the joy of his 
heart, ran to pick up the flamingo he had 
killed; he plunged up to his knees in the 
water, and with great difficulty was able to 
get out again; while I, warned by his 
example, proceeded more cautiously in my 
pursuit of the wounded bird. Ponto came to 
my assistance, for without him I should have 
lost all trace of the animal; but he ran on 
before, caught hold of the flamingo, and held 
him fast till I reached the spot, and took him 
into my protection. All this was effected 
with considerable trouble; for the bird made 
a stout resistance, flapping its wings with 
violence for some time. However, at last I 
succeeded in securing him.</p>

<p>Fritz was not long in extricating himself 
from the swamp; he now appeared holding 
the dead flamingo by the feet: but I had 
more trouble in the care of mine, as I had a 
great desire to preserve him alive. I had 
tied his feet and his wings with my 
handkerchief; notwithstanding which, he still 
continued to flutter about to a distressing 
degree, and tried to make his escape. I held 
the flamingo under my left arm, and my 
gun in my right hand. I made the best 
jumps I was able, to get to the boys, but at 
the risk of sinking every moment into the 
mud, which was extremely deep, and from 
which it would have been difficult to have 
released me. Attracted by the love of 
sporting, I had made my way through these 
dangerous places, scarcely observing their 
existence; but now, on my return, I shuddered on 
perceiving the danger to which I had 
exposed myself.</p>

<p>The joy of the boys was excessive, when 
they saw that my flamingo was alive. If we 
can but cure his wound and contrive to feed 
him, what a happiness it will be! said they. 
Do you think that he will like to be with the 
other fowls?</p>

<p>I know, answered I, that he is a bird that 
may be easily tamed; and we will make our 
experiment upon him: but he will not thank 
you for such food as we give our fowls; he 
will make his humble petition to you for 
some small fish, a few worms, or insects.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—Our river will furnish him with 
all these; Jack and Francis can catch as 
many as he will want; and very soon, with such 
long legs as he has, he may learn the way to 
the river and find them for himself.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—I hope you will take great care of 
him, for I have a great desire to preserve him.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—How delightful it will be, if we can 
catch some other sorts of wild birds, and have 
a yard to keep them in! But look, father, he 
is web-footed like aquatic birds, while his 
legs are long like the stork: is not this rare 
and extraordinary?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Not at all: many other birds, as 
well as the flamingo, possess the double 
faculty of running and of swimming.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—But, father, are all flamingoes 
like this, of such a beautiful red colour, and 
the wings so exquisitely tinted with purple? 
I think I have seen the flamingo in my 
Natural History, and the colours were not like 
these: so perhaps this is not a flamingo at 
last?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—I believe it is a flamingo, 
Ernest, and that this difference in the plumage 
denotes the age of the bird: when very 
young they are gray, at a more advanced age 
they are white; and it is only when they are 
full grown, that they are adorned with this 
beautifully tinted plumage.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—This dead one, then, is an old 
fellow, and I am afraid by his colours that he 
will make but a tough dish: shall we not 
take him home to mamma?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Yes, certainly. I leave to you 
the care of carrying him, in the best manner 
you can: in the mean time, I shall repeat my 
visit to the canes, for I have not done with 
them yet. I accordingly selected, now, some 
of the oldest of the stalks, and cut from them 
their hard-pointed ends, which I had well 
considered would serve for the tips of my arrows, 
for which they are also used by the savages 
of the Antilles. Lastly, I looked for two 
of the longest canes, which I cut, for the 
purpose of measuring the height of our giant 
tree, about which I felt so deep an interest. 
When I told my sons the use I intended to 
make of the two longest canes, they indulged 
themselves in a hearty laugh at me, and 
maintained, that though I should lay ten 
such canes up the trunk of the tree, the last 
would not reach even the lowest branch. 
I requested they would oblige me by having 
a little patience; and I reminded them, that 
it was not long ago that they defied their 
mother to catch the fowls, because they 
themselves had not known how to set about it.</p>

<p>When I had done all I wanted, I began to 
think of returning. Ernest took the charge 
of all the canes; Fritz carried the dead 
flamingo, and I took care of the living one. 
We had not gone far, when Fritz, addressing 
himself to Ponto, said: Oho, lazy bones! 
so you think you are to be excused from any 
part of the burden; have the goodness to 
carry my flamingo on your back, with the 
same politeness as your companion Turk 
observed, towards my little monkey.</p>

<p>As he said this, he tied the dead bird upon 
his back, without the least resistance from 
the patient animal.</p>

<p>So then, said I, Mr. Fritz intends to 
return quite at his ease, and without any part 
of our load, while his old father and his 
young brother carry each a heavy portion!</p>

<p>Your reproach is very just, father, said the 
excellent lad; give me, I entreat you, your 
live bird, and I will take the greatest care of 
him; only see if he does not already give 
me a kind look! and as for his long 
formidable beak, I am not the least afraid of it; he 
does not look as if he would bite me. That 
is the more generous on his part, replied I, 
for it was you who wounded him: but it is 
a known fact, that animals are often of a less 
revengeful nature than man, and you will see 
that this bird will attach itself to you very 
strongly: saying this, I put the flamingo 
carefully into his hands.</p>

<p>We were now returned to the spot where 
we had left the three bundles of bamboo-canes; 
and as my sons were sufficiently 
loaded, I took charge of them myself. Now 
you see, said I to Fritz, that in this instance 
kindness is its own reward; if you had not 
undertaken the care of the flamingo, you 
would have had to carry all these bundles, 
which are a much heavier load.</p>

<p>We were at length arrived once more at 
our giant trees, and were received with a 
thousand expressions of interest and 
kindness. Why, what have you there, Ernest, 
that is so beautiful a red?—and, Fritz, what 
is that in your handkerchief? All were 
delighted at the sight of our new conquests. My 
wife, with her accustomed disposition to 
anxiety on our account, immediately asked where 
we should get food enough for all the 
animals we brought home. You should 
consider, said I, that some of them feed us, 
instead of being fed; and the one we have 
now brought you, need not give you much 
uneasiness, if, as I hope, he proves able to 
find food for himself without our 
interference. I now began to examine his wound, 
and found that only one wing was injured 
by the ball, but that the other had also been 
slightly wounded by the dog’s laying hold 
of him. I anointed them both with an 
ointment I composed of a mixture of butter and 
wine for the purpose, and which seemed 
immediately to ease the pain; I next tied him 
by one of his legs, with a long string, to a 
stake I had driven into the ground, quite near 
to the stream, that he might go in and wash 
himself when he pleased.</p>

<p>In the mean time, my little railers had 
tied the two longest canes together, and were 
endeavouring to measure the tree with them; 
but when they found that they reached no 
further than the top of the arch formed by 
the roots, they all burst into immoderate fits 
of laughter, assuring me, that if I wished to 
measure the tree, I must think of some other 
means. I however sobered them a little, by 
recalling to Fritz’s memory some lessons in 
geometry and land-surveying, which he had 
received in Europe, and that by means of 
these useful sciences, the measure of the 
highest mountains, and their distance from each 
other, may be ascertained by the application 
of triangles and supposed lines. I instantly 
proceeded to this kind of operation, fixing my 
canes in the ground, and making use of some 
string, which Fritz guided according to my 
directions. I will not fatigue the reader 
with a minute account of the geometrical 
process I adopted, as a substitute for the 
proper instruments; it is sufficient to let 
him know, that the means I used, answered 
my purpose, and that I found that the height 
of our tree was forty feet: this particular of 
its height I was obliged scrupulously to 
ascertain, before I could determine the 
length of my ladder. I now set Fritz and 
Ernest to work, to measure our stock of 
thick ropes, of which I wanted no less than 
eighty feet for the two sides of the ladder; 
the two youngest I employed in collecting 
all the small string we had used for 
measuring, and carrying it to their mother. For 
my own part, I sat down on the grass, and 
began to make some arrows with a piece of 
the bamboo, and the short sharp points of 
the canes I had taken such pains to secure. 
As the arrows were hollow, I filled them 
with moist sand, to give them a little weight; 
and lastly, I tipped them with a bit of 
feather from the flamingo, to make them fly 
straight. Scarcely had I finished my work, 
than the boys came jumping round me, 
uttering a thousand demonstrations of joy: A 
bow, a bow, and some real arrows! cried 
they, addressing each other, and then 
running to me.—Tell us, father, continued they, 
what you are going to do with them; do let 
me shoot one;—and me; and me too, 
cried one and all as fast as they could speak.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Have patience, boys; I say, have 
patience. This once I must claim the 
preference for myself, in order to make trial of my 
work, which I undertook rather for use than 
for amusement; so now I will try one of 
them. Have you, my dear, any strong thread? 
said I to my wife; I want some 
immediately. We shall see, said she, what my 
enchanted bag, which has never yet refused its 
aid, can do for you. She then threw open its 
mouth. Come, said she, my pretty bag, give 
me what I ask you for; my husband wants 
some thread, and it must be very strong..... 
See now, did I not promise you should have 
your wish?..... See, here is a large ball of 
the very thread you want.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—But I do not see much magic, 
however, mother, in taking out of a bag, 
exactly what we had before put into it.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—If we are to discuss the matter 
seriously, Ernest, I cannot but allow that your 
observation is a just one; but in a moment 
of dreadful apprehension, such as we 
experienced on leaving the vessel, to think of a 
variety of little things that might be useful to 
one or all of us, was an act that we may 
truly call an enchantment; and it is a 
conduct, of which, only the best of wives and the 
best of mothers could be capable: it is, then, 
something like a truth, that your mother is 
a good fairy, who constantly provides for all 
our wants: but you young giddy things 
think little of the benefit you thus enjoy.</p>

<p>Just at this moment, Fritz joined us, 
having finished measuring the string; he 
brought me the welcome tidings that our 
stock, in all, was about five hundred fathoms, 
which I knew to be more than sufficient for 
my ladder. I now tied the end of the ball of 
strong thread to an arrow, and fixing it 
to the bow, I shot it off in such a direction, 
as to make the arrow pass under one of the 
largest branches of the tree, and fall again 
to the ground from the upper side of the 
same branch. By this method I lodged 
my thread across the main branch, while 
I had the command of the end and the 
ball below. It was now easy to tie a piece 
of rope to the end of the thread, and 
draw it upwards, till the knot should 
reach the same branch. We were thus 
enabled again to measure the height it was 
from the ground, and it again proved to be 
forty-feet, as had appeared by my former 
mode of measuring. Having now made quite 
sure of being able to raise my ladder by 
means of the string already suspended, we all 
set to work with increased zeal and 
confidence. The first thing I did was to cut a 
length of about a hundred feet from my 
parcel of ropes, an inch thick; this I divided 
into two equal parts, which I stretched along 
on the ground in two parallel lines, at the 
distance of a foot from each other. I then 
directed Fritz to cut portions of sugar cane, 
each two feet in length. Ernest handed 
them to me, one after another; and as I 
received them, I inserted them into my cords 
at the distance of twelve inches respectively; 
fixing them with knots in the cord, while 
Jack, by my order, drove into each a long 
nail at the two extremities, to hinder them 
from slipping out again. Thus in a very 
short time I had formed a ladder of forty 
rounds in length, and in point of execution 
firm and compact, and which we all beheld 
with a sort of joyful astonishment. I now 
proceeded to fasten it firmly to one end of 
the rope, which hung from the tree, and 
pulled it by the other, till one end of our 
ladder reached the branch, and seemed to 
rest so well upon it, that the joyous 
exclamations of the boys and my wife resounded 
from all sides. All the boys wished to be 
the first to ascend upon it; but I decided 
that it should be Jack, he being the 
nimblest and of the lightest figure among them. 
Accordingly, I and his brothers held the end 
of the rope with all our strength, while our 
young adventurer tripped up the ladder with as 
much ease as if he were a cat, and presently 
took his post upon the branch; but I 
observed that he had not strength enough to 
tie the rope firmly to the tree. Fritz now 
interfered, assuring me that he could ascend 
the ladder as safely as his brother: but, as 
he was much heavier, I was not altogether 
without apprehension. I gave him 
instructions how to step, in such a way as to divide 
his weight, by occupying four rounds of the 
ladder at the same time, with his feet and 
hands; I made him take with him some 
large nails and a hammer, to nail the ladder 
firmly to the branch. He set out 
courageously upon the undertaking, and was almost 
instantly side by side with Jack, forty-feet 
above our heads, and both saluting us with 
cries of exultation. Fritz immediately set 
to work to fasten the ladder, by passing the 
rope round and round the branch; and this 
he performed with so much skill and 
intelligence, that I felt sufficient reliance to 
determine me to ascend myself, and well conclude 
the business he had begun. But before I 
ascended, I tied a large pulley to the end of 
the rope, and carried it with me. When I 
was at the top, I fastened the pulley to a 
branch which was within my reach, that by 
this means I might be able the next day to 
draw up the planks and timbers I might 
want for building my aërial castle. I 
executed all this by the light of the moon, and 
felt the satisfaction of having done a good 
day’s work. I now gently descended my 
rope ladder, and joined my wife and children.</p>

<p>As I found an inconvenience in being 
three of us together on the branch, I had 
directed the boys to descend first. My 
astonishment, therefore, on reaching the ground, and 
finding that neither Fritz nor Jack had made 
their appearance, it is easier to conceive than 
to describe; their mother, as she assured me, 
having seen nothing of them since they 
ascended the ladder. While I was 
endeavouring to conjecture where they could be, we 
suddenly heard the sound of voices which 
seemed to come from the clouds, and which 
chanted an evening hymn. I soon recognised 
the trick our young rogues had played 
me; who seeing me busily employed in the 
tree, instead of descending as I had desired 
them, had climbed upwards from branch to 
branch till they reached to the very top. 
My heart was now lightened of my 
apprehensions for their safety, and I called out to 
them as loudly as I could, to take great care 
in coming down. It was almost night, and 
the light of the moon scarcely penetrated the 
extreme thickness of the foliage. They 
presently descended, and joined their anxious 
relations without any accident. I now 
directed them to assemble all our animals, 
and to get together what dry wood we should 
want for making fires, which I looked to as 
our defence against the attacks of wild beasts. 
I explained to them all my reasons for this, 
informing them that in Africa, a country 
remarkable for its prodigious numbers of 
ferocious animals, the natives secure themselves 
from their nocturnal visits, by lighting large 
fires, which all these creatures are known to 
dread and avoid.</p>

<p>When these preparations were finished, my 
wife presented me with the day’s work she 
had performed; it was some traces and a 
breast-leather each for the cow and the ass. 
I promised her, as a reward for her zeal and 
exertion, that we should all be completely 
settled in the tree the following day. And 
now we began to think of our supper, in 
which she and Ernest and little Francis had 
been busily and officiously engaged. Ernest 
had made two wooden forks, and driven them 
into the ground to support a spit, upon 
which was a large piece of the porcupine, 
which he kept turning at the fire. Another 
piece of the animal was boiling in the pot 
for soup; and both together exhaled an odour 
which gave us an excellent appetite.</p>

<p>All our animals had now come round us, 
one after the other. My wife threw some 
grain to the fowls, to accustom them to 
assemble in a particular spot; and when they 
had eaten it, we had the pleasure of seeing 
our pigeons take their flight to the top of the 
giant tree, and the cocks and hens perching 
and settling themselves, and cackling all the 
time, upon the rounds of the ladder. The 
quadrupeds we tied to the arched roots of 
the tree, quite near to our hammocks, where 
they quietly lay down on the grass to 
ruminate in tranquillity. Our beautiful flamingo 
was not forgotten, Fritz having fed him with 
some crumbs of biscuit soaked in milk, which 
he ate very heartily; and afterwards putting 
his head under his right wing, and raising his 
left foot, he abandoned himself with 
confidence to sleep.</p>

<p>At last we had notice that our supper was 
served. We had laid together in different 
heaps, a quantity of dried branches and pieces 
of wood, in readiness to light, when my wife 
summoned us to our meal, which we had 
waited for with impatience, and now greedily 
devoured. My wife, still keeping her 
resolution of not tasting the porcupine, contented 
herself with the more sober fare of bread 
and cheese. The children brought us some 
figs for the dessert, which they had picked 
up under the trees, and of which we all 
partook with pleasure. And now the gaping of 
one of the boys, and the out-stretched arms of 
another, gave us notice, that it was time for 
our young labourers to retire to rest. We 
performed our evening devotions. I set fire 
to several of the heaps, and then threw 
myself contentedly upon my hammock. My 
young ones were already cased in theirs, and 
we were soon greeted with their murmurs at 
being obliged to lie so close to each other, 
that they could not move their limbs. Ah, 
gentlemen, cried I, you must try to be 
contented; no sailor is ever better 
accommodated than you are now, and you must not 
expect beds to drop from the clouds on your 
behalf! I then directed them how to put 
themselves in a more convenient posture, and 
to swing their hammock gently to and fro. 
And see, added I, if sleep will not visit you 
as soon in a hammock, as on a bed of down. 
They profited by my advice, and all, except 
myself, were soon asleep.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap11" id="chap11" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER XI.<br/>
<small><em>The settling in the giant tree.</em></small></h2>

<p><span class="smcap">I had</span> thought it necessary to keep watch 
during this first night, for the protection of 
my family. Every leaf that stirred, gave me 
the apprehension that it was the approach of 
a jackall or a tiger, who might attack some 
member of my family. As soon as one of 
the heaps was consumed, I lighted another; 
and at length, finding that no animal 
appeared, I by degrees became assured, and at 
last fell into so sound a sleep, that I did not 
awake early enough for the execution of my 
project for that day. The boys were all up 
and about me. We took our breakfast, and 
fell to our work. My wife, having finished 
her daily occupation of milking the cow, 
and preparing the breakfast for the family, 
and for all the animals, set off with Ernest, 
Jack, and Francis, attended by the ass, to 
the sea-shore; they had no doubt of finding 
some more pieces of wood, and they thought 
it would be prudent to replenish our 
exhausted store. In her absence, I ascended the 
tree with Fritz, and made the necessary 
preparations for my undertaking, for which I 
found it in every respect convenient; for the 
branches grew extremely close to each other, 
and in an exactly horizontal direction. Such 
as grew in a manner to obstruct my design, 
I cut off either with the saw or hatchet, 
leaving none but what presented me with a 
sort of foundation for my work. I left those 
which spread themselves evenly upon the 
trunk, and had the largest circuit, as a 
support for my floor. Above these, at the 
height of forty-six feet, I found others, upon 
which to suspend our hammocks; and 
higher still, there was a further series of 
branches, destined to receive the roof of my 
tent, which for the present was to be formed 
of nothing more than a large surface of 
sail-cloth.</p>

<p>The progress of these preparations was 
considerably slow. It was necessary to raise 
certain beams to this height of forty feet, 
that were too heavy for my wife and her 
little assistants to lift from the ground 
without great effort. I had, however, the 
resource of my pulley, which served to 
excellent purpose. My wife and her little boys 
fastened the beams to pieces of cord above, 
while Fritz and I contrived to draw them up 
to the elevation of the tent one by one. 
When I had already placed two beams upon 
the branches, I hastened to fix my planks 
upon them; and I made my floor double, 
that it might have sufficient solidity if the 
beams should be in any way warped from 
their places. I then formed a wall 
something like a park-paling, all round, to prevent 
accidents to ourselves or children. This 
operation, and a third journey to the 
sea-shore to collect the timber necessary, filled 
our morning so completely, that not one of 
us had thought about dinner. For this once 
it was requisite to be content with a simple 
provision of ham and milk. Dinner ended, 
we returned to work to finish our aërial 
palace, which now began to make an 
imposing appearance. We unhooked our 
hammocks, <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr> from the projecting roots 
from which they had at first been suspended; 
and, by means of my pulley, contrived to 
hoist them up to our new habitation. The 
sail-cloth roof was supported by the thick 
branches above; and as it was of great 
compass, and hung down on every side, the idea 
occurred to me of nailing it to the paling on 
two sides, and thus getting not only a roof, 
but two walls also; the immense trunk of 
the tree forming a third; while a fourth side 
contained the entrance of our apartment; 
and this I left entirely open, both as a means 
of seeing what passed without, and for 
admitting a current of air to cool us in this 
burning temperature. We also on this side 
enjoyed an extensive and uninterrupted view 
of the vast ocean, and its lengthening shore. 
The hammocks were soon suspended from 
the branches above, and now every thing 
was ready for our reception that very 
evening. Well satisfied with the execution of my 
plan, I descended with Fritz, who had 
assisted me throughout the whole; and as the 
day was not far advanced, and I observed we 
had still some planks remaining, we set about 
contriving a large table to be placed between 
the roots of the tree, and surrounded with 
benches; and this place, we said, should be 
called our dining-parlour. For this time, we 
performed our task but slightly, for I confess 
I was much fatigued. The table, on the 
whole, however, was such as might be well 
endured, and the view of it gave my wife 
considerable satisfaction as she looked on, 
busied with preparations for our supper. In 
the mean time, the three youngest boys 
collected all the pieces of wood we had thrown 
down from the tree, and put them together 
to dry in a heap, at a small distance from our 
fire-place. I also tied together a quantity 
of small wood which we had collected, and 
which served to augment our store for 
making fires.</p>

<p>Entirely exhausted by the fatigues of the 
day, I threw myself at full length on a bank, 
saying to my wife, that as I had worked like 
a galley-slave to-day, I should allow myself 
some rest to-morrow. My wife answered, 
that not only I was entitled to a day of rest, 
but that it was a duty incumbent on me to 
take it on the following day; for, said she, 
I have calculated that to-morrow is Sunday. 
Unfortunately we had already passed one 
sabbath-day without recollecting that it was 
so.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—I thank you, my dear, for 
making this discovery, and I promise you that the 
day shall be celebrated by us, as it ought to 
be. It was not unknown to me that we had 
passed over one Sunday without a due 
observance of the duties it imposes; but I 
confess it appeared to me, that being caused by 
the extraordinary exertions we had to make 
for the preservation of our lives in a desert 
place, to which it had pleased God to 
conduct us, it was a pardonable omission; but 
now that we seem to have surmounted many 
difficulties, and to have secured ourselves an 
habitation, we should indeed be culpable not 
to celebrate in a solemn and particular 
manner, the day he has consecrated to himself.</p>

<p><i>My Wife.</i>—Be assured, my dear, that I 
shall heartily join you in rendering thanks to 
God, who in so imminent a danger preserved 
all that was dear to me, and affords us here, 
in a strange and desert land, not only the 
necessaries of life, but many of its comforts 
also. I could no where have met with an 
habitation more to my fancy, than that you 
have effected for us in the tree. I will mount 
the ladder this evening with you, for I feel 
almost a child’s joy at the idea of passing the 
night up in the air, as we may call it. Let 
us quickly eat our supper and go to bed, 
without dropping a word about its being 
Sunday to-morrow. It will be a great 
pleasure to me to surprise the boys with the news 
of a day of rest from labour, which they did 
not expect.</p>

<p>And I, for my part, said I, am rejoiced to 
find you thus contented and resigned to your 
fate, and entertaining no contempt for our 
imperfect contrivances. But now let us see 
what you have prepared for our reward; and 
let us call the children round us; I feel in 
want of such a restorative after my fatigue.</p>

<p>The little company was soon assembled 
round the table. Their mother followed, 
holding in her hand an earthen pot, which 
we had before observed upon the fire, and 
the contents of which we were all curious to 
be informed of. She took off the cover, and 
with a fork drew out of it the flamingo which 
Fritz had killed. She informed us that she 
had preferred dressing it this way, to roasting, 
because Ernest had assured her that it was 
an old bird, which would prove hard and 
tough, and had advised her to improve it by 
stewing. We rallied our glutton boy on this 
foible of his character, and his brothers gave 
him the name of the <i>cook</i>. We, however, 
had soon reason to know, that he had 
conferred upon us an important obligation; for 
the bird, which roasted we perhaps should 
not have been able to touch, now appeared 
excellent, and was eaten up to the very 
bones.</p>

<p>While we were thus enjoying our repast, 
the live flamingo stalked up to the place 
where we were sitting, in the midst of our 
flock of fowls, to receive his part of the 
repast, little thinking that it was his late 
companion that had furnished it. The live 
flamingo had now become so tame, that we 
had released him from the stake. He took 
his walks gravely from place to place, and 
looked perfectly contented with his company. 
His fine plumage was a most pleasing sight; 
while, on the other hand, the sportive tricks 
and the grimaces of our little monkey, 
afforded the most agreeable spectacle 
imaginable. The little animal had become quite 
familiar with us; jumped from the shoulder 
of one to that of another; always caught 
adroitly the meat we threw him, and ate it in 
so pleasant a way as to make us laugh 
heartily. To increase our merriment, the old sow, 
which hitherto had shown an unconquerable 
aversion to our society, and which we had 
missed for two whole days, was now seen 
advancing towards us, grunting at every step. 
For this time, however, her grunting 
indicated her joy at having found us once more: 
and the joy was mutual; of which my wife 
gave her a substantial proof, by serving her 
instantly with what remained of our daily 
allowance of milk.</p>

<p>I confess I thought her a little too generous, 
till she explained to me that it was necessary 
to contrive some utensils proper for making 
butter and cheese, and that till this was done, 
it was better to turn the milk to profit in this 
way, than, in so hot a climate, to let it be 
spoiled. And it was the more necessary, 
she added, as our grain began to run short, 
and that, as pigs are very fond of milk, it 
might be a means of preventing her 
wandering from us again.</p>

<p>I always find you right, my dear, said I. 
It shall not be long ere we again undertake 
another visit to the vessel, to fetch a new 
provision of grain for your poultry.</p>

<p>Again the subject of the vessel, said she, 
with a sort of reproachful regret; I shall 
never enjoy a moment’s happiness till it is 
gone to the bottom, and you shall have 
entirely banished it from your thoughts! You 
never make a voyage that does not leave me 
filled with agonizing alarm for your safety.</p>

<p>I cannot deny, replied I, that there may be 
some reason for this; but I must remind you 
that we always choose a day of calm and settled 
weather for our excursion; and in my opinion 
we should be unpardonable, if we allowed 
ourselves to be so subdued by causeless alarms, 
as to neglect the means of obtaining a variety 
of useful things, which Providence seems to 
have reserved for our use.</p>

<p>During this conversation, the boys, by my 
direction, had lighted one of the heaps of 
wood for the protection of our animals. 
This being done, we tied long ropes loosely 
round the necks of our dogs, purposing to 
mount to our tent with the ends in my hand, 
that I might be able to let them loose upon 
the enemy at the first barking I should hear. 
Every one was now eager to retire to rest, 
and the signal for ascending the ladder, was 
given. The three eldest boys were up in an 
instant; then came their mother’s turn, who 
proceeded slowly and cautiously, and arrived 
in perfect safety. My own ascension was the 
last, and the most difficult; for I carried little 
Francis on my back, and the end of the 
ladder had been loosened at the bottom, that I 
might be able to draw it up in the tent 
during the night: every step, therefore, was 
made with the greatest difficulty, in 
consequence of its swinging motion. At last, 
however, I got to the top, and, to the 
admiration of the boys, drew the ladder after 
me. It appeared to them that we were in 
one of the strong castles of the ancient 
chevaliers, in which, when the draw-bridge is 
raised, the inhabitants are secured from every 
attack of the enemy. Notwithstanding this 
apparent safety, I kept our guns in readiness 
for whatever event might require their use. 
We now abandoned ourselves to repose; our 
hearts experienced a full tranquillity; and the 
fatigue we had all undergone, induced so 
sound a sleep, that day-light shone full in the 
front of our habitation, before our eyes were 
opened.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap12" id="chap12" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER XII.<br/>
<small><em>The Sabbath and the parable.</em></small></h2>

<p><span class="smcap">On</span> awaking in the morning, we were all 
sensible of an unusual refreshment, and a 
new activity of mind. Well, young ones, 
cried I jocosely, you have learned, I see, 
how to sleep in a hammock, I heard not a 
single complaint all the night! no 
disputing about room from any one of you; all 
was still and tranquil. Ah, answered they, 
stretching and yawning as they spoke, we 
were so heartily fatigued yesterday, that it 
is no wonder we slept so soundly.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Here then, my children, is 
another advantage derived from labour; that 
of procuring a sweet and peaceful sleep.</p>

<p>Yes, yes, father, that is very true, said 
they, so let us go to work again to-day: 
What is there to do? What will you give 
each of us to do?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Nothing at all; you will do no 
work with your hands for the whole day.</p>

<p><i>The Boys.</i>—Oh, father, you are joking 
now, I see you are; you are laughing at us 
because we slept a little too long.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—No, my dear boys, I am not 
joking. This day is Sunday, and God said, 
<i>Six days shall thou labour, but the seventh 
is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God;</i> and 
we will therefore celebrate it as we ought.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—Sunday! What, are there Sundays 
here? That is quite delightful! Oh, I will 
go and shoot my arrows, and I will walk 
about and play, and I will do no work the 
whole day.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Do you think, then, that it was 
solely for the purpose that people might 
amuse themselves, and indulge in idleness, 
that God reserved Sunday to himself? You 
mistake; what he intended was, that there 
should be a day set apart for worship and 
thanksgiving for all his goodness, and such 
an employment of our time ought to be our 
greatest pleasure.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—I thought, father, that the 
worship of God consisted in going to church to 
hear a sermon and sing hymns: we have no 
church here, how then can we properly 
observe Sundays?</p>

<p><i>Francis.</i>—And we have no organ either, 
and I am very sorry, for I like very much 
to hear it.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—You see then, papa, that it is not 
possible for us to celebrate Sunday in the 
way you propose.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—How childishly you talk! Do 
you think that papa, who made sermons for us 
in our own country, cannot make them here? 
Is not God in every place, as certainly as in 
a church? And what should hinder us from 
singing without an organ? When there 
were soldiers encamped near our town, they 
had neither church nor organ, and yet the 
service of the church was performed to 
them: we have a good minister, and that is 
the principal thing.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Your brother is quite right, my 
boys; God is indeed every where, and the 
best worship consists in thinking of him, and 
of his holy will, and resolving to fulfil it. 
In this sense, there is no place in the world 
that may not serve for a church, because we 
may entertain pious sentiments every where; 
and this majestic arch of heaven, the 
immediate work of the Almighty, ought more 
effectually to raise the soul and touch the 
heart, than an edifice of stone made by the 
hand of man! We will, therefore, perform 
divine service this morning; we shall have 
no sermon to-day, those I know by heart 
being beyond your comprehension: young 
persons should be addressed on the subject 
of the Supreme Being, according to their 
feeble understanding, and not as we would 
address an audience whose judgement and 
reason are matured. I will hereafter 
compose a sermon that shall be suitable for you: 
today we will repeat the prayers, and sing 
one of those affecting hymns of adoration 
which your mother taught you. I will then 
relate to you a parable of the Great King, 
which is well adapted to awaken pious 
thoughts and sentiments in your minds.</p>

<p><i>The Boys.</i>—A parable, a parable! What, 
like that of the Sower in the Testament. 
Ah, yes, do, papa; we will listen for ever to 
that; do begin directly.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Every thing in its turn, if you 
please: first, let us perform our usual 
morning devotions; then we will descend to 
breakfast, and take care of our animals, a 
work which God permits us to engage in 
even on Sundays: in the meanwhile, I will 
reflect a little on the history I am to relate, 
and then I will call you round me.</p>

<p>Accordingly, after prayers, we descended 
the ladder, and breakfasted on warm milk; 
we served the animals also with their meal, 
and then we all sat down on the tender grass; 
the boys full of impatient curiosity; their 
mother absorbed in silent reflection, her 
hands joined and her eyes sometimes turned 
towards the sky; while I was penetrated with 
the most lively desire to impress upon the 
young minds of my children, a subject I 
considered of the highest importance for 
their well-being, both in this world and in 
that which is to come.</p>

<p>All now standing up, I repeated aloud the 
church service, which I knew by heart, and 
we sung some verses from the hundred and 
nineteenth psalm, which the boys had before 
learned; after which we sat down, and I 
began as follows:</p>

<p>“My dear children, there was once a 
Great King, whose kingdom was called The 
country of Light and Reality, because the 
purest and softest light of the sun reigned 
there continually, which caused the 
inhabitants to be in a perpetual state of activity. 
On the furthest borders of this kingdom, 
northward, there was another country which 
also belonged to the Great King, and the 
immense extent of which, was unknown to 
all but himself. From time immemorial, 
a plan the most exact of this country, had 
been preserved in the royal archives. This 
second kingdom was called The kingdom of 
Obscurity or of Night, because every thing 
in it was gloomy and inactive.</p>

<p>“In the most fertile and agreeable part 
of his empire of Reality, this Great King had 
a residence called the Heavenly City, in which 
he lived and kept his court, which was the 
most brilliant that the imagination can form 
an idea of. Millions of guards, and servants 
high in dignity, remained for ever round 
him, and a still larger number held 
themselves in readiness to receive his commands. 
The first of these were clothed in robes of 
cloth that was lighter than silk, and white 
as snow; for white, the image of purity, was 
the favourite colour of the Great King. 
Others of his attendants carried flaming 
swords in their hands, and their garments 
displayed the most brilliant colours of the 
rainbow; each of these stood in waiting to 
execute the will of the King, with the 
rapidity of lightning, on receiving from him the 
slightest sign. All were happy to be 
admitted into his presence; their faces shone 
with the mildest joy, and wore the 
impression of a calm serenity, and of the absence 
of all inquietude and pain: there was but 
one heart, and one soul among them; the 
sentiment of paternal concord so united 
these beings, that no envy or jealousy ever 
arose among them. The common centre of 
all their thoughts, and all their sentiments, 
was devotion to their sovereign: it would 
have been impossible either to see or 
converse with them, without passionately 
desiring, even at any sacrifice, to obtain their 
friendship, and to partake their lot. Among 
the rest of the inhabitants of the Heavenly 
City, there were some less close in their 
attendance upon the Great King; but they 
were all virtuous, all happy, all had been 
enriched by the beneficence of the monarch, 
and, what is of still higher price, had received 
constant marks of his paternal care; for his 
subjects were all equal in his eyes, and he 
loved them and treated them as if they had 
been his children.</p>

<p>“The Great King had, besides the two 
kingdoms I have been describing, an 
uninhabited island of considerable extent; it 
was his wish to people and cultivate this 
island, for all within it was a kind of chaos: 
he destined it to be for some years the abode 
of such future citizens as he intended to 
receive finally into his residence, to which 
only such of his subjects were admitted, as 
had rendered themselves worthy by their 
conduct. This island was called Earthly 
Abode; he who should have passed some 
time in it, and by his virtues, his application 
to labour, and the cultivation of the land, 
should have rendered himself worthy of 
reward, was afterwards to be received into the 
Heavenly City, and made one of its happy 
inhabitants.</p>

<p>“To effect this end, the Great King caused 
a fleet to be equipped, which was to 
transport the new colonists to this island. These 
he chose from the kingdom of Night, and 
for his first gift bestowed upon them the 
enjoyment of light, and the view of the lovely 
face of nature, of which they had been 
deprived in their gloomy and unknown abode. 
It will easily be imagined that they arrived 
joyful and happy, at least they became so, 
when they had been for a short time 
accustomed to the multitude of new objects which 
struck their feeble sight. The island was 
rich and fertile when cultivated. The 
beneficent King provided each individual who was 
disembarked upon it, with all the things he 
could want in the time he had fixed for their 
stay in it, and all the means for obtaining 
the certainty of being admitted as citizens of 
his magnificent abode, when they should 
leave the Earthly Island. All that was 
required to entitle them to this benefit was, 
that they should occupy themselves 
unceasingly in useful labour, and strictly obey the 
commands of the Great King which he made 
known to them. He sent to them his only 
son, who addressed them from his father in 
the following terms:</p>

<p>“‘My dear children, I have called you 
from the kingdom of Night and Insensibility 
to render you happy by the gifts of life, of 
sentiment, and of activity. But your 
happiness for the most part will depend upon 
yourselves. You will be happy if you wish to 
be so. If such is your sincere desire, you 
must never forget that I am your good king, 
your tender father; and you must faithfully 
fulfil my will in the cultivation of the 
country I have confided to your care. Each of 
you shall receive, on his arriving at the island, 
the portion of land which is intended for 
him; and my further commands respecting 
your conduct, will be soon communicated to 
you. I shall send you wise and learned 
men, who will explain to you my commands; 
and that you may of yourselves seek after 
the light necessary for your welfare, and 
remember my laws at every instant of your 
lives, it is my will that each father of a 
family, shall keep an exact copy of them in his 
house, and read them daily to all the 
persons who belong to him. Further, each 
first day of the week, I require to be devoted 
to my service. In each colony, all the 
people shall assemble together as brothers in one 
place, where shall be read and explained to 
them, the laws contained in my archives. 
The rest of this day shall be employed in 
making serious reflections on the duties and 
destination of the colonists, and on the best 
means to fulfil the same: thus, it shall be 
possible to all, to receive instruction 
concerning the best manner and most effectual means, 
of improving the land which has been 
confided to your care: thus, you will each day 
learn to manure, to sow, to plant, to water, 
and cleanse the land from tares, and from all 
evil weeds that may choke the good seed. 
On this same day, each of you may present 
his supplications, may tell me what he stands 
in need of, and what he desires to have, to 
forward the perfection of his labour; all 
these requests will appear before me, and I 
shall answer, by granting such as I shall think 
reasonable, and tending to a salutary end. 
If your heart tells you that the various 
benefits you enjoy, deserve your gratitude, and 
if you will testify it by doubling your activity, 
and by consecrating to me the day I have 
chosen for myself, I will take care that this 
day of rest, instead of being an injury to 
you, shall become a benefit, through the 
salutary repose of your body, and that of the 
animals given you to assist your labours, and 
who, as well as yourself, should enjoy 
repose on that day to recruit their strength. 
Even the wild animals of the field, and of the 
forests, ought on that day to be protected 
from the pursuit of the hunter.</p>

<p>“‘He, who in his Earthly Abode shall 
most strictly have observed my will, who 
shall have best fulfilled the duties of a 
brother towards his fellow inhabitants, who 
shall have preserved his land in the best 
order, and shall show the largest produce 
from it, shall be recompensed for his deeds, 
and shall become an inhabitant of my 
magnificent residence in the Heavenly City. But 
the neglectful and the idle man, and the 
wicked man, who shall have spent their 
time in interrupting the useful labours of 
others, shall be condemned to pass their 
lives in slavery, or, according to the degree 
of their wickedness, shall be condemned to 
live in subterraneous mines, in the bowels of 
the earth.</p>

<p>“‘From time to time, I shall send ships to 
fetch certain individuals from the Earthly 
Island, to reward or punish them, according 
as they have done well or ill; and as none 
will be warned beforehand, of the time of 
the coming of my messenger, it will be well 
for you to keep watch, that you may be ready 
to perform the voyage, and worthy to be 
received into the Heavenly City. It will not 
be permitted for any one to pass by stealth 
on board the ship, and leave his abode 
without my orders; for such a one shall be 
severely punished. I shall have the most 
certain knowledge of all that passes in the 
Earthly Island, and no one will be able to 
deceive me. A magical mirror will at all 
times show me the actions of each individual 
in the island, and you shall be judged 
according to your most secret thoughts and 
acionst.’</p>

<p>“All the colonists were well satisfied 
with the discourse of the Great King, and 
made him the most sacred promises. After 
a short time allowed for repose from the 
fatigue of the voyage, a portion of land and 
the proper instruments for labour, were 
distributed to each of the strangers. They 
received also seeds, and useful plants, and young 
trees for producing them refreshing fruits. 
Each was then left at liberty to act as he 
pleased, and increase the value of what was 
confided to his care. But what happened? 
After some time, each followed the 
suggestions of his fancy: one planted his land with 
arbours, flowery banks, and sweet-smelling 
shrubs; all pleasing to the sight, but which 
brought forth nothing. Another planted 
wild apple-trees, instead of the good fruit as 
the Great King had commanded; 
contenting himself with giving high-sounding names 
to the miserable fruit he had caused to be 
brought forth. A third had indeed sown 
good grain; but not knowing how to 
distinguish the tares that grew up along with 
it, he pulled up the good plants before they 
were mature, and left only the tares in his 
ground. But the greater part let their land 
lie fallow, and bestowed no labour upon it, 
having spoiled their implements, or lost their 
seed, either from negligence or idleness, or 
liking better to amuse themselves than to 
labour; many of them had wilfully 
misunderstood the instructions of the Great King, and 
sought by subtleties to change their 
meaning.</p>

<p>“Few, very few, worked with diligence 
and courage, and seeking to improve their 
land, according to the orders they had 
received. The great fault of these was, that 
they would not believe what the Great King 
had sent to tell them. All the fathers of 
families, had indeed a copy of the laws of the 
Sovereign, but most of them omitted to read 
in the book: some saying that it was useless 
to read it, for they knew it by heart, while 
they never employed their thoughts upon 
it. Others pretended that these laws were 
good for times past, but were no longer 
beneficial for the present state of the country. 
Some had even the audacity to assert, that 
it contained many inexplicable contradictions; 
that the laws it prescribed were merely 
supposed or falsified, and that they had 
therefore a right to deviate from them. Others 
among them maintained, that the magical 
mirror was a mere fable; that the King was 
of too merciful a nature to keep galleys; that 
there was no such place as the subterranean 
mines; and that all would at last enter the 
Heavenly City. From habit they continued 
to celebrate the first day of the week, but 
by far the smallest part of it was consecrated 
to the honour of the Great King. Great 
numbers of them dispensed with going to 
the general assembly, either from idleness, 
or to employ themselves in occupations which 
had been expressly forbidden. By far the 
greater part of the people considered this 
day of repose as intended for pleasure, and 
thought of nothing but adorning and 
amusing themselves as soon as daylight appeared. 
There were only then a small number of 
persons who kept the day according to the 
decree; and even of those who frequented 
the assembly, many had their thoughts 
absent, or were sleepy, or engaged in forming 
empty projects, instead of listening to the 
words, which fell from the lips of the minister 
of the sovereign. The Great King, however, 
observed unalterably the laws he had laid down 
and announced, respecting them. From time 
to time, some frigates appeared on their coasts, 
each bearing the name of some disastrous 
malady; and these were followed by a large 
ship of the line, named the <i>Grave</i>, on board 
of which, the admiral, whose name was 
<i>Death</i>, caused his flag of two colours, green 
and black, to be constantly floating in the 
air. He showed the colonists, according to 
the situation in which he found them, either 
the smiling colour of Hope, or the gloomy 
colour of Despair.</p>

<p>“This fleet always arrived without being 
announced, and seldom gave any pleasure 
to the inhabitants. The admiral sent the 
captains of his frigates, to seize the persons 
he was ordered to bring back with him. 
Many who had not the smallest inclination 
were suddenly embarked, while others, who 
had prepared every thing for the harvest, 
and whose land was in the best condition, 
were also seized. But these last took their 
departure cheerfully, and without alarm; 
well knowing that nothing but happiness 
awaited them. It was those who were 
conscious they had neglected to cultivate their 
land, who felt the most regret. It was even 
necessary to employ force to bring them 
under subjection. When the fleet was ready 
for departure, the admiral sailed for the 
port of the Royal Residence; and the Great 
King, who was present on their arrival, 
executed with strict justice both the rewards 
and punishments which had been promised 
to them. All the excuses alleged by those 
who had been idle, were of no avail. They 
were sent to the mines and to the galleys, 
while those who had obeyed the Great King 
and well cultivated their land, were admitted 
into the Heavenly City, clothed in robes of 
brilliant colours, one exceeding the other 
according to the degree of merit.”—Here, 
my dear children, ends my parable. May 
you have thoroughly understood its 
meaning, and may you reap the advantage it is 
capable of affording you! Make it the 
subject of your reflections the whole of this 
day. You, Fritz, I see, are thoughtful; 
tell me what struck you most in my 
narration.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—The goodness of the Great King, 
and the ingratitude of the colonists, father.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—And you, Ernest, what is your 
thought?</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—For my part, I think they were 
great fools to have made so bad a calculation. 
What did they get by conducting themselves 
as they did? With a little pains they might 
have passed a very agreeable sort of life in 
the island, and would have been sure of 
going afterwards to the Heavenly City.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—To the mines, gentlemen, away 
with you! you have well deserved it.</p>

<p><i>Francis.</i>—For my part, I should have 
liked best to have lived with the men who 
were drest in the colours of the rainbow. 
How beautiful they must have looked!</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—This is well, my boys. I 
perceive that each of you, according to his age 
and character, has seized the meaning of 
my parable. I have by this image 
endeavoured to represent to you the conduct of 
God towards man, and that of man towards 
God: let us see now if you have completely 
seized the sense.—I then put different 
questions to them, and explained what they had 
not perfectly comprehended; and after a 
short review of the principal parts of my 
discourse, I concluded it by a moral 
application.</p>

<p>“Human creatures, said I, are the 
colonists of God; we are required to perform the 
business of probation for a certain period, 
and sooner or later are destined to be taken 
hence. Our final destination is Heaven, and 
a perfect happiness with the spirits of just 
men made perfect, and in the presence of 
the bountiful Father of us all. The piece of 
land intrusted to each is the soul! and 
according as he cultivates and ennobles it, or 
neglects or depraves it, will be his future 
reward or punishment. At present, dear 
children, that you know the true sense of 
my parable, each of you should make the 
application of it according to his own 
consciousness. You, Fritz, should think of 
the subjects who planted the wild apples, 
and wished to make them pass for sweet 
savoury fruit of a superior kind. These 
represent persons who make a parade of the 
natural virtues belonging to their character, 
and which are consequently exercised 
without any trouble to themselves; such as 
courage, strength, <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr> who prefer them to 
more essential qualities acquired by others, 
with sacrifices and labour to themselves; 
and who, full of presumption and arrogance, 
consider themselves as irreproachable, 
because nature has given them personal 
courage, and bodily strength, and a certain skill 
in the use of these qualities.</p>

<p>“You, Ernest, should think of the 
subjects of the Great King who cultivated their 
land so as to produce arbours, flowery 
banks, and sweet-smelling shrubs, and such 
productions in general as would please the 
eye, but which produced no fruit. These 
are they, who give their whole attention to 
the acquiring unfruitful knowledge, sciences, 
<abbr>&amp;c.</abbr>, and consider with a sort of contempt 
the things more immediately required for the 
conduct of life; who exert themselves solely 
for the understanding, and neglect the heart; 
whose principal aim it is, to obtain 
self-indulgences, and who neglect what is useful in 
society.</p>

<p>“You, Jack, and you, Francis, should 
apply to yourselves the case of those men 
who let their land lie fallow, or, in their 
thoughtlessness, mistook the grain, and 
sowed tares instead of wheat. These are the 
neglectful subjects, who neither think nor 
learn, but give to the winds what is taught 
them, or entirely forget instruction; who 
reject virtuous sentiments, and let the bad 
ones grow in their hearts. But for 
ourselves, one and all, we will adopt the 
model of the good and zealous labourers; and 
should our exertions be a little painful, we 
shall think of the reward which awaits us, 
when we shall have adorned our souls with all 
that is good, just, and praiseworthy. Thus, 
when death, which cannot fail to come at 
last, shall summon us, we may follow him 
with joy to the throne of the Good and Great 
King, to hear him pronounce these sweet 
and consoling words: O good and 
faithful servant! thou hast been tried, and found 
faithful in many things; enter thou into the 
joy of thy Lord.” With these words, and 
a short prayer of benediction, I concluded 
the solemnity of our Sunday; and I had the 
satisfaction of seeing, that my four sons had 
not only listened attentively, but that they 
were struck with the application I had made 
to each of them. They remained for a short 
time reflecting in silence. Jack was the first 
to break it: You have explained to us every 
part of the parable, father, except the copy 
of the laws of the Great King, which was 
to be kept and read in every family: have 
you one of these copies? for you never read 
it to us.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Alas! my children, I have 
never been without such a copy; and not only 
one, but several, and we have read in it 
almost every day. This copy is the Holy Bible, 
which contains all God’s laws, and which we 
ought constantly to study carefully. I cannot 
forgive myself for not having thought of 
bringing it from the vessel. Should we not 
be able to go another voyage, we shall for 
ever be deprived of this divine doctrine. I 
can hardly imagine how it could be possible 
for me, a minister of the Holy Gospel, and 
the father of a family, to be so occupied 
about things for the comfort of our poor 
mortal bodies, and forget what might 
console and sustain our immortal souls, and 
which was so necessary for the conduct of 
my children!</p>

<p><i>My Wife.</i>—Have you then forgot my 
enchanted bag, which I have promised shall 
furnish every thing you can desire? You 
wish for a Bible. In a minute I will put one 
into your hands; and heartily do I rejoice 
in having the power to bring you so great a 
satisfaction.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—O best and most excellent of 
women! how ashamed I am of myself in the 
comparison! While, in the midst of 
confusion and horrors, you thought of so many 
little things conducive to our comfort, and 
which we as males disdained to be occupied 
about, have you then also taken care of the 
most essential of all, the health of our souls? 
A thousand thanks are due to you! Give me 
the inestimable book, these laws of the Great 
King, which I have mentioned in my 
parable, and which from this moment, we will 
take for the rule of our lives. She opened 
her bag, and with joy I received from her 
the book of life. I opened it, and 
immediately read some passages from it to my 
family. In this solitude, in which for so long 
a time we had heard only our own thoughts 
expressed in an appropriate language, we 
were singularly affected with the voice from 
heaven, which now seemed to address us: 
we felt forcibly that, notwithstanding our 
exile, we were still connected with the 
community of mankind: by the invisible tie of 
the same religion, and the same Father, we 
were for ever numbered among the children 
of God, to whom he enjoins laws, and on 
whom he bestows his care, no less in a 
desert, than in an immense capital; our island, 
containing only our own family, was no 
doubt as interesting in his eyes, as whole 
nations of people. I explained with the utmost 
care what I read to them, and I gave the book 
in turn to each of the boys, that they might 
have the pleasure of reading for themselves.</p>

<p>I chose in preference, such passages as were 
applicable to our circumstances. We then 
raised our hearts to God, to thank him for 
so signal a benefit as the preservation of our 
Bible! My young folks still remained 
thoughtful and serious; but by and by the 
gaiety natural to their age, prevailed, and 
each slipped away to seek the recreation he 
liked best. But as it had been enjoined 
them not to undertake any kind of labour, 
they rambled about from place to place, with 
more appearance of listlessness than of 
reflection. This gave me an opportunity of 
observing, that at their age, the soul is too 
feeble to sustain herself through the whole 
day without occupation. I recalled them, 
therefore, and observed that the Great and 
Good King did not require complete inaction 
from them, and that they might amuse and 
occupy themselves the rest of the day, 
without giving him offence, provided they should 
avoid unruly sports. Jack desired me to 
lend him my bow and arrows, as he wished 
to see how they would fly, now that they had 
been completed from the quills of his 
porcupine. Fritz had a great desire to be 
employed about the case he was to make of the 
skin of the tiger-cat, and asked my advice 
how to proceed. Little Francis, also, laid 
my activity under contribution, by requesting 
me to make him a bow and arrows, he 
being yet too young to be intrusted with a 
gun. I began with giving Jack the bow 
and arrows as he desired, and told him how 
to make the sand run out, and to put on 
the sharp points at the end, and tie them 
securely round with packthread, and then 
to dip them into some glue.</p>

<p>Yes, yes, I understand, said Jack wagging 
his head knowingly; I know how to do it 
very well, father. But will you be kind 
enough to tell me where there is a glue-shop, 
that I may step and buy some glue in a 
minute?</p>

<p>I will show you where, said little Francis, 
laughing as he spoke: ask mamma to give 
you one of her soup cakes, which are 
exactly like good strong glue.</p>

<p>Little blockhead! replied Jack, you think 
then it is enough to be like; what I want is 
glue, and not soup.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Not so much of a blockhead as 
you think, Jack, interrupted I. The truth 
often comes from the lips of children, and 
you will do well to follow his advice. I am 
of opinion, that one of the cakes, dissolved 
in a little water, and afterwards thickened 
upon the fire, would produce what would be 
an excellent substitute for glue; give 
yourself therefore the trouble of making the 
experiment. Put a soup cake over the fire in 
one of our cocoa-shells, and you will soon 
know the event.</p>

<p>While Jack was preparing his glue, and 
Francis, proud of being the inventor, was 
busied in assisting his brother, blowing the 
fire <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr>, Fritz came to me for my advice 
about the making of his case. Run, said I, 
and fetch your skin, and we will work at it 
together. I sat down on the grass, took out 
my knife, and with the remains of a bamboo 
cane, began to make a bow for Francis. I 
was well satisfied to observe them one and 
all, take a fancy to shooting with an arrow, 
having been desirous to accustom them to 
this exercise, which constituted the principal 
defence of the warriors of old, and might 
possibly become our only means of 
protection and subsistence: our provision of 
powder must at last be exhausted; we might 
even, from moment to moment, be deprived 
of it by accident; it therefore was of the 
utmost importance to us, to acquire some 
other means of killing animals, or 
attacking our enemies. The Caribees, I recollected, 
were taught at a very tender age, to strike 
an object at the distance of thirty or forty 
steps; they hit the smallest birds perched on 
the top of the tallest trees. Why then should 
it not be possible for my boys to learn to do 
the same? I will at least, said I, provide 
them with bows and arrows, and try what 
can be done.</p>

<p>While I was silently reflecting on the 
subject, employed in finishing a bow for 
Francis, Ernest, who had been observing me for 
some time, slipped suddenly away; and Fritz 
coming up at the same moment, with the 
wetted skin of the tiger-cat in his hand, I 
paid no attention to the circumstance. I 
began my instructions to my eldest boy, 
respecting the trade of a tanner. I told him 
the method of getting rid of the fat of the 
skin, by rubbing it over with sand, and 
placing it in running water till it had no 
longer any appearance of flesh, or any smell; 
next to rub it with soft butter, to make it 
supple, and then to stretch the skin in 
different directions; and also to make use of 
some eggs in the operation, if his mother 
could spare them. You will not at first 
produce such excellent workmanship as I 
have seen of this kind from England; but 
with a little patience, regretting neither your 
time, nor your labour, you will have 
completed some decent-looking cases, which will 
give you the more pleasure, from being made 
from an animal of your own taking, and by 
the work of your own hands. When your 
skin shall have thus been prepared, cut 
certain small cylinders of wood of the size and 
length required; scoop these cylinders 
hollow, so as to form a convenient case for 
a knife, a fork, or a spoon; then stretch 
your softened skin upon the surface of the 
cylinders, in such a manner, that the skin 
may stretch a little beyond the extremity of 
the wood, and close at the top; you have 
then nothing more to do, than to let the skin 
cling to, and dry upon these moulds. Your 
work will then be finished, and will turn out 
a neat and masterly production.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—I understand perfectly, and I 
hope I shall succeed; but if I were to take 
some cork for my moulds, the cases would 
be lighter, and more convenient for 
carrying.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—No doubt they would, but 
where can you get any cork? and how 
would you be able to cut it and scoop it 
out? It is a wood singularly impracticable, 
and would resist the knife.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—If you would let me take one of 
the cork jackets we keep for swimming, I 
could try, by means of heating it, to render it 
fit for my purpose.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—To this I have no objection; I 
like to see you inventive, and casting about 
for the means of success. In reality, we 
have a pretty considerable number of those 
jackets; and I am in hopes we shall not 
want them any more. You may get one of 
them, but take care not to hold it too long to 
the fire. What is the matter, wife, that you 
shake your head? You seem dissatisfied with 
your boy’s undertaking?</p>

<p><i>My Wife.</i>—No, I am not dissatisfied with 
his work, provided he can accomplish it, 
but with the use for which it is intended. 
Do you imagine that I shall let you have 
our silver table utensils to be dragged about, 
at the risk of losing them, in your expeditions? 
In the first place, I do not consider 
them as our own; and what account should 
we have to give the captain, should we ever 
meet again?</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—Oh, we should have accounts 
enough for him. We would tell him, that 
but for the pains we took to preserve them, 
they would all have gone to the bottom; 
that the last thing our friends the sharks 
would have thought of, would be to restore 
his silver spoons; and that, as we had all the 
trouble, they ought to be considered of our 
own earning.</p>

<p><i>My Wife.</i>—So you have made a 
partnership with the sharks, my boy! I hope, 
however, that you entertain a higher idea than 
you profess, of your own nature; and that 
upon more reflection you will perceive, that 
in equity and justice, we ought to consider, 
not only these utensils, but all the other 
things of value we took from the vessel, as a 
trust committed to our care; and which we 
ought to use our utmost endeavours to 
preserve. I am, however, of opinion, that 
having rescued them at the risk of our lives, 
we have a right to use them for our own 
convenience, while we remain destitute of 
all human aid; but that, if we should ever 
find the persons to whom they belong, it is 
a duty incumbent on us to return them.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—And I, for my part, am of 
opinion, that the captain, however great a 
man he may be, will not be sorry to receive 
them in a magnificent case made from the 
skin of the tiger-cat, with which I shall 
present him, in return for the use of his 
utensils.</p>

<p>I was laughing at the vanity of my young 
pretender, when suddenly, we heard the 
firing of a gun, which proceeded from our 
tent in the tree, and two birds at the same 
time fell dead at our feet. We were at 
once surprised and alarmed, and all eyes 
were turned upwards to the place. There 
we saw Ernest standing outside the tent, 
a gun in his hand, and heard him 
triumphantly exclaiming, Catch them! catch them 
there! I have hit them; and you see I did 
not run away for nothing. He descended 
the ladder joyfully and precipitately, and ran 
with Francis to take up the two birds; while 
Fritz and Jack mounted to our castle in the 
tree, hoping to meet with the same luck. 
I observed them when they were got near 
the top, and called after them,—What are 
you going about? Have you already 
forgot the Great King, who commands 
that the birds of the air and the beasts of the 
field should rest on the day he has 
consecrated to himself?</p>

<p>These words suddenly interrupted the zeal 
of the young sportsmen, and diminished the 
pleasure of Ernest. He blushed, and cast 
his eyes on the ground, without attempting 
an excuse; while his brothers quietly 
descended the ladder, and began to examine 
the birds which had fallen from the tree. 
One of the dead birds proved to be a sort of 
thrush, and the other was a very small kind 
of pigeon, which in the Antilles is called an 
ortolan: they are very fat, and of a 
delicious taste. We now observed, for the first 
time, on looking about, that the wild figs 
began to ripen, and that they attracted a 
great number of these birds. I foresaw, in 
consequence, that we were about to have 
our larder well stored, and our table 
furnished with a dish which even a nobleman 
might envy us. I consoled the boys for the 
reproach I had made them, by giving them 
permission to kill as many of these birds, in 
future, as they liked. I knew that, half 
roasted and put into barrels with melted 
butter thrown over them, it was a food that would 
keep a long time, and might prove an 
excellent resource in time of need. My wife 
set about stripping off the feathers of the 
birds Ernest had killed, to dress them for 
our supper. I seated myself by her side, and 
proceeded in my work of arrow-making for 
Francis; and observed to my wife, that she 
would find an excellent substitute in the figs, 
for the grain we should want to feed our 
fowls, who no doubt would be found to have 
as high a relish for them, as was evinced by 
the ortolans.</p>

<p>Thus finished our day of rest. The birds 
proved excellent; but in point of quantity, 
we ran no risk of indigestion. Supper 
ended, and prayers said, we ascended the 
ladder in procession; and each withdrew to 
his hammock to taste the sweets of a 
tranquil sleep, though unprompted by such fatigue 
as we had experienced the preceding day.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap13" id="chap13" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER XIII.<br/>
<small><em>Conversation, a walk, and important 
discoveries.</em></small></h2>

<p><span class="smcap">Jack</span> had finished the trial of his arrows: 
they flew to admiration; and he practised 
his new art incessantly. Little Francis waited 
with impatience for the moment when he 
should do the same, and followed with his 
eyes every stroke I made. But when I had 
finished my bow, and prepared some little 
arrows for him, I must next undertake to 
make him a quiver; for, said he, an archer 
can no more be without a quiver, than a 
sportsman without a game-bag. I found I 
must submit. I took some bark from the 
branch of a tree, which came off in a round 
form; and folding the edges over each other, 
I stuck them together with some glue 
produced from the soup cakes, and which 
answered the purpose extremely well. I next 
stuck on a round piece to serve for the 
bottom; and then tied to it a loop of string, 
which I hung round his neck. He put his 
arrows into it; and, happy as a chevalier in 
full armour, he took his bow in his hand, and 
ran to try his skill by the side of his brother. 
Fritz had also cleaned and prepared his 
materials for the cases, when his mother 
summoned us to dinner. We cheerfully placed 
ourselves under the shade of our tree, round 
the table I had manufactured. At the end of 
the repast, I made the following proposition 
to the boys, which I was sure would give 
them pleasure.</p>

<p>What think you, my good friends, said I, 
of giving a name to the place of our abode, 
and to the different parts of the country 
which are known to us? I do not mean a 
general name to the whole island, for who 
knows, but that some illustrious European 
traveller may have already bestowed on it the 
name either of a great navigator, or of some 
saint; and that our island may not already 
make a figure in certain maps of geography? 
But this need not prevent us from also 
giving names to the objects we are concerned 
with, and which will make us better 
understand each other, when we are conversing 
about them: this ceremony will also present 
to us the soothing illusion, of inhabiting a 
country already known and peopled.</p>

<p>They all exclaimed, joyfully, that the idea 
was excellent.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—Oh! pray, papa, let us invent 
some very long names, and that are very 
difficult to be pronounced. I should be glad 
that those who shall read about us, should be 
a little puzzled to remember the names of 
the places and things that belonged to us. 
What pains has it not cost me to remember 
their <i>Monomolapa</i>, their <i>Zanguebar</i>, their 
<i>Coromandel</i>, and many other still more 
difficult appellations! Ah! now we shall take 
our revenge of them.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—This would all be very well, if it 
were probable that our history in this country, 
and the names we shall have bestowed, were 
likely to be objects of public curiosity; 
but in the mean while, you forget that our 
own organs will be fatigued, by frequently 
pronouncing such barbarous names as you 
propose.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—How shall we manage then? 
What pretty names can we find?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—We will do as all sorts of 
nations have done before us. We will name 
the places by different words from our own 
language, that shall express some particular 
circumstance with which we have been 
concerned.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—Well, so we will; I shall like this 
still better. Where shall we begin?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—We shall naturally begin with 
the bay by which we entered this country. 
What shall we call it? What say you, Fritz? 
You must speak first, for you are the 
eldest.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Let us call it <i>Oyster Bay</i>: you 
remember what quantities of oysters we found 
in it.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—Oh, no! let it rather be called 
<i>Lobster Bay</i>; for you cannot have forgot 
what a large one it was that caught hold of 
my leg, and which I carried home to you.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—Why then we may as well call 
it the <i>Bay of Tears</i>, for you must 
remember that you roared loud enough for all of us 
to hear you.</p>

<p><i>My Wife.</i>—My advice would be that, out 
of gratitude to God, who conducted us hither 
in safety, we ought to call it <i>Providence 
Bay</i>, or the <i>Bay of Safety</i>.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—This name is both appropriate 
and sonorous, and pleases me extremely. 
But what name shall we give to the spot 
where we first set up our tent?</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Let us call it simply <i>Tent House</i>.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—That name will do very well. 
And the little islet at the entrance of 
<i>Providence Bay</i>, in which we found so many 
planks and beams that enabled us to make 
our bridge, how shall it be named?</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—It may be called <i>Sea-Gull 
Island</i>, or <i>Shark Island</i>, for it was here we 
saw both those animals.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—I am for the last of these names, 
<i>Shark Island</i>; for it was the shark that was 
the cause of the sea-gulls being there; and 
it will also be a means of commemorating 
the courage and the triumph of Fritz, who 
had killed the monster.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—For the same reason we will call 
the marsh, in which you cut the canes for 
our arrows, <i>Flamingo Marsh</i>.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Quite right, I think; and the 
plain, through which we passed on our way 
to this place, <i>Porcupine Field</i>, in memory of 
your skilful encounter with him. But now 
comes the great question,—What name shall 
we give to our present abode?</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—It ought to be called, simply, 
<i>Tree Castle</i>.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—No, no, that will not do at all; 
that is the same as if, when we wanted to 
name a town, we called it <i>The Town</i>. Let 
us invent a more noble name.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—Yes, so we will. I say <i>Fig 
Town</i>.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Ha, ha, ha! a noble name, it 
must be confessed! Let us call it <i>The Eagle’s 
Nest</i>, which I am sure has a much better 
sound. Besides, our habitation in the tree, is 
really much more like a nest, than a town, 
and the eagle cannot but ennoble it, since he 
is the king of birds.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Will you let me decide the 
question for you? I think our abode should 
be called <i>The Falcon’s Nest</i>; for, my boys, 
you are not yet arrived at the dignity of 
eagles, but are simply, poor birds of prey; 
and like the falcon, you also are, I trust, 
obedient, docile, active, and courageous. 
Ernest can have no objection to this; for, as 
he knows, falcons make their nests in large 
trees. All exclaimed, clapping their hands, 
Yes, yes, we will have it <i>The Falcon’s Nest!</i> 
the sound is quite chivalrous; so, Health to 
<i>Falcon’s Nest Castle!</i> cried they all, looking 
up to the tree, and making low bows. I 
poured out a small quantity of sweet wine, 
and presented it to each, to solemnize our 
baptism. And how, said I, shall we name 
the promontory, where Fritz and I in vain 
wearied our eyes, in search of our 
companions of the vessel? I think it may properly 
be called, <i>Cape Disappointment.</i></p>

<p><i>All.</i>—Yes, this is excellent. And the river 
with the bridge——</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—If you wish to commemorate 
one of the greatest events of our history, it 
ought to be called <i>The Jackall’s River</i>; for 
these animals crossed it when they came and 
attacked us, and it was there that one of them 
was killed. The bridge I should name 
<i>Family Bridge</i>, because we were all employed 
in its construction, and all crossed it together 
in our way to this place. It will be quite a 
pleasure to converse about the country we 
inhabit, now that we have instituted names 
as if every thing belonged to us.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—It will be just as if we had 
farms and country houses, all dependent 
upon our castle.</p>

<p><i>Francis.</i>—It is the same as if we were 
kings.</p>

<p><i>My Wife.</i>—And the queen-mother is not 
without hope, that her little slips of majesty 
will conduct themselves mercifully towards 
their subjects,—the birds, the agoutis, the 
geese, and the flamingoes; the..... What 
more shall I say? for I do not know the family 
name of all your vassals. Let me, 
therefore, end, by hoping that you will not 
depopulate your kingdom.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—No, mother, we will take care of 
that. We will endeavour to extirpate, only 
those among our subjects, who are wicked.</p>

<p>In this pleasing kind of chat, the time of 
dinner passed agreeably away. We settled 
the basis of a geography of our own 
country; and amused ourselves with saying that it 
must go by the first post to Europe.</p>

<p>After dinner, Fritz again set to work upon 
his case; and, to my great astonishment, he 
had possession of one of the cork-jackets, 
and was preparing to cut it to pieces, and 
use it as a lining to the cylinders. In the 
name of Heaven, cried I, where did you get 
the jacket? I was quite sure we had left 
them all at Tent House; and when I gave 
you leave this morning, to take one of them, 
it was in the hope that, tired with waiting, 
you would use some other wood, and that 
the jacket would escape. As it is, I must 
shut my eyes while you cut it, for I will not 
retract my word. But tell me where you 
got it? It was I, said my wife, who placed 
it as a saddle on the ass’s back, for little 
Francis to sit upon. You, it seems, did not 
observe it; but nothing escapes that 
lynx-eyed boy of ours, called Fritz.</p>

<p>Well, well, since it is thus, replied I, let 
him make use of it if he can; the cutting it 
will at least exercise his patience. I shall 
soon find how to manage it, said Fritz, by 
holding it near the fire. We let him do as 
he liked, and I went out to look for Jack, 
whom I met, dragging the skin of his 
porcupine with great difficulty along; for it was 
still armed with all the quills, with the 
exception of about a dozen, which we had 
taken for the arrows. He spread it at my 
feet, entreating me to assist him in making 
some coats of mail, or cuirasses, of it, for 
the dogs, as I had before recommended to 
him, and which he had taken care not to 
forget. After making him clean the skin 
completely on the inside, with some cinders 
and sand mixed together, I assisted him in 
cutting it, and his mother helped him in 
the sewing. When this was done, we put 
the first that was dried on the back of the 
patient Turk, which gave him a respectable 
warlike sort of an appearance, and no one 
could doubt that he was sufficiently well 
armed to encounter even an hyæna.</p>

<p>His companion, Ponto, had less reason to 
be pleased with this new kind of spiked 
accoutrement. Turk, unconsious of one 
particular quality in his new dress, approached 
near to Ponto and lay down by his side, who 
sprang off in a fright, searching about, for 
some place where he might be sheltered from 
the perforating familiarities of his companion. 
Jack’s concluding business, was, stripping the 
skin from the head of the porcupine, and 
stretching it on one of the roots of our trees 
to dry, intending to make a cap of it, like 
those worn by the savages, which, he said, 
would frighten our enemies should they 
approach; while, in the mean time, his friends, 
if they liked it, might set it on a pole and 
make merry with it.</p>

<p>During our employment, Ernest and Francis 
had been exercising themselves in shooting 
their arrows: the evening was advancing, 
and the intense heat of the day began to 
diminish. I invited all my family to take a 
walk: Leave your work for this time, my 
boys, said I, and let us make a short 
excursion; and, as a suitable conclusion to the 
day, let us seek in the beautiful face of 
Nature, for traces of the wisdom and goodness 
of the Creator. Which way shall we direct 
our steps?</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Let us go to Tent House, father; 
we are in want of powder and shot for the 
little consumers of our figs; nor must we 
miss our dinner for to-morrow, or forget 
that we are to secure a supply for winter.</p>

<p><i>My Wife.</i>—I too vote for Tent House; 
my butter is nearly gone, for Fritz took an 
unreasonable share for his new trade of 
tanning; also, I have never failed to observe, 
that those who most zealously preach a life 
of frugality and œconomy, are at least as 
well satisfied as the rest, when I take care 
to present them with an excellent and well 
dressed dinner.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—If we go to Tent House, let us 
try to bring away some of the geese and 
ducks with us: they will look very well 
swimming about in our stream here, by 
Falcon’s Nest.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—I will undertake to catch them, if 
any one will help to bring them home.</p>

<p><i>Francis.</i>—And I will catch my 
handkerchief full of lobsters in the Jackall’s River, 
and we will put them into Falcon’s Stream, 
where, no doubt, they will thrive to 
admiration.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—You really all of you assign 
such good reasons, that I see I must yield to 
them. To Tent House, then, we will go; 
but we will not take our accustomed road 
along the sea-shore, but rather vary our 
pleasure, by trying to explore some other 
way. We will keep along our own little 
stream as far as the wall of rocks, whose 
agreeable shade will accompany us almost as 
far as the cascade formed by Jackall’s River: 
it will, I hope, as we have no burden to carry, 
be easy for us to cross it, by jumping from 
stone to stone, and so to get to Tent House: 
we will return with our provisions by the 
road of Family Bridge, and along the 
sea-shore; the sun, if not gone down, will then 
be at our backs. This new route may possibly 
furnish some additional discoveries.</p>

<p>My idea was highly applauded, and all 
was soon arranged for our setting out. Fritz 
was adorned with his fine tiger-cat-made 
belt, but he had not been able to finish his 
cases in time. Jack walked gravely on, his 
porcupine cap upon his head, and his jackall 
belt, armed with his two pistols, round his 
waist. Each carried a gun and a game-bag; 
even little Francis had his bow in his hand, 
and his quiver on his shoulder; and being 
both pretty and of a fair complexion, he 
resembled a little Cupid. Their mother was 
the only person not burdened with a gun; 
but she carried her large butter-pot, to fill it 
at our store-house. Turk marched before us 
with his coat of mail studded with spikes, 
but it was apparent that he felt intimidated 
and ill at ease; his step was therefore slow 
and quiet. The monkey also, having a great 
desire to accompany us, leaped without 
ceremony on his accustomed seat, the back of 
Turk. But when he perceived the 
formidable saddle and the projecting spikes, he sprang 
four times forward, making the most 
comical grimaces imaginable. He was not long, 
however, in choosing what to do. Ponto, he 
saw, was without such a frightful instrument; 
so he jumped upon him in a trice, and clung 
so closely to his back, that the dog could 
not shake him off: he therefore gave up the 
endeavour, and quietly submitted to carry 
him. Even our new friend, the flamingo, 
seemed to understand that some 
extraordinary movement was in agitation, and 
prepared to make one of the party. The pretty 
kind-tempered animal had become every day 
more tame, and attached himself to us with 
a confidence which increased our goodwill 
towards him. The boys, enchanted by the 
manner in which he placed himself in the 
ranks with us, all contended for being his 
companion; but the flamingo adopted the 
prudent measure of coming up to me, and 
showing his reliance on my protection, by 
walking gravely by my side.</p>

<p>Our route along the stream, was at first 
extremely agreeable, being sheltered by the 
shade of large trees, while the ground 
under our feet was a short and soft kind of 
grass. To prolong the pleasure of our 
walk, we proceeded slowly, amusing 
ourselves with looking about us to the right 
and left; the eldest boys made frequent 
escapes on before, so that we sometimes lost 
sight of them. In this manner we reached 
the end of the wood; but the country now 
appearing to be less open, we thought it 
would be prudent to bring our whole 
company together. On looking forward, we saw 
the boys approaching us full gallop, and 
this time, for a wonder, the grave Ernest 
was first. He reached me panting for breath, 
and so full of joy and eagerness, that he 
could not pronounce a single word distinctly; 
but he held out his hand, which contained 
three little balls of a light green colour.</p>

<p>We have found a prize indeed, father, 
cried he at last, when he had recovered his 
voice; we have found some potatoe seed!</p>

<p>What say you? potatoe seed? inquired 
I joyfully; have you really been so fortunate? 
Come near, every one of you, and let me 
look at your little balls; for I scarcely dared 
believe in so happy an event, as the discovery 
of a plant which would place us for ever 
beyond the reach of hunger, and even of 
apprehension. It was you then, Ernest, 
who found the prize, and our grateful thanks 
are your due.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—I do not see any great merit there 
was in the case. I should have found them 
as soon as he, if I had been in the right 
place. I see no great talent in what he has 
done.</p>

<p><i>My Wife.</i>—But, Jack, there is still less 
talent in your attempt to undervalue the 
useful discovery your brother has made, and 
in seeking to diminish the obligation, which 
we ought rather to feel a pleasure in 
acknowledging. This little movement of envy in 
your bosom occasions me uneasiness; I must 
add, that it is by no means certain that, even 
if you had been in the same place, you would 
have remarked the potatoes; that you, who 
are so thoughtless and unobserving, would 
have known the leaves for those of the 
potatoe plant. Ernest gives more attention to 
what he sees, and his discoveries are not 
merely the effect of hazard, but of 
observation also. Perhaps, too, you do not know 
a potatoe when you see it; and it is even 
possible that we may ourselves mistake the 
plant, from our great eagerness to meet the 
confirmation of our wishes; for there are, 
no doubt, other plants which also produce 
small green round balls upon their stalks.</p>

<p><i>Francis.</i>—Why, do potatoe plants bear 
fruit on their branches as well as at the roots?</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—Little blockhead! do you think, 
then, that the roots bear blossoms? Do you 
not know that the vegetable called the 
potatoe, is only the root of the plant, or at 
least a part of the root, and not a fruit? 
The fruit, in all plants, is the depository of 
the seed, which must ripen in the sun, and 
consequently above ground: these little green 
balls, therefore, are the real fruit which 
succeed to the blossom, and contain the seed.</p>

<p>I did not fail to applaud Ernest for this 
clear and sensible explanation. We all 
hastened to the place where he had seen 
these tubercles, and, with extreme joy, we 
found there a large plantation of potatoe 
plants; a part of them were covered with 
their lilac and yellow blossoms, the sight of 
which conveyed more pleasure to our hearts 
than if they had been the most fragrant roses; 
another portion of the plantation was in seed; 
and in several places, some younger plants 
were pushing through the earth. Our 
petulant Jack bawled out, jumping for joy, 
They are really potatoes! and though it was 
not I who discovered them, at least it shall be 
I who will dig them up. Saying this, he 
knelt down and began to scratch up the 
earth with all ten fingers of his feeble hands. 
He would not, however, have made much 
progress, if the monkey, excited by his 
example, had not also set himself to work. 
He dug up several with great dexterity; and 
after smelling at them, he was going to throw 
them to a distance: but Jack snatched them 
eagerly out of his paws, and gave them to 
his mother; and afterwards the monkey and 
he continued digging up the potatoes 
together, and soon obtained enough to serve up 
for a dinner. The rest of us, unwilling to be 
idle spectators, set to work also; with our 
knives and sticks we soon procured a sufficient 
number, to fill our bags and our pockets. 
When we were well loaded, we again began 
to think of our walk to Tent House. Some 
of our company raised their voices in favour 
of returning immediately to Falcon Stream, 
to unload our cargo, and prepare our booty 
for a delicious meal; but so many pressing 
motives presented themselves for proceeding 
to our store-house, that it was decided we 
should continue our route, which we 
accordingly resumed.</p>

<p>My children, said I, as we pursued our 
way, this discovery of the potatoes is one of 
inestimable value; it reminds me of a 
passage in the Bible, which is strikingly 
applicable to our situation, and ought to awaken 
a sentiment of the warmest gratitude in our 
hearts, towards our heavenly Father: it is 
a part of the hundred-and-seventh psalm, and 
these are the words:</p>

<p>“They wandered in the wilderness, in a 
solitary way; they found no city to dwell 
in: hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted 
within them: then they cried unto the Lord 
in their trouble, and he delivered them out 
of their distress: he led them forth by the 
right way, that they might go to the place 
of their habitation. He satisfieth the 
longing spirit, and filleth the hungry soul with 
his goodness.”</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—This is truly applicable to our 
situation, and we will all return thanks to 
God for so inestimable a gift.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—There are, no doubt, different 
kinds of vegetables, more succulent and more 
delicate than the potatoe; but it is precisely 
this plain tasteless kind of sustenance, that 
can be eaten for the longest time together, 
without satiety: accordingly, food of this 
nature, such as bread, rice, potatoes, obtains, 
on the whole, a preference over provisions 
possessing a higher flavour. Can you tell 
me, boys, the reason of this?</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—I know; it is because they are 
more wholesome.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—And because they occasion no 
disgust; could eat potatoes every day of my 
life, without being tired of them.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—All you say is true; in future 
they will serve us for bread, and often 
indeed for our whole dinner. But let us for 
the present dismiss the subject of our 
unexpected good fortune, and resume our 
expedition.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap14" id="chap14" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER XIV.<br/>
<small><em>Continuation of the preceding chapter, and 
more discoveries.</em></small></h2>

<p><span class="smcap">Conversing</span> on different subjects, we 
reached the long chain of rocks, over which 
our pretty Falcon Stream made its escape in 
the form of a cascade, whose gentle 
murmurs delighted the ear, as much as its wild 
and various aspect gratified the eye. We 
kept along the chain of rocks which led to 
Jackall’s River, and from thence to Tent 
House, having first, with difficulty, pushed 
through the high grass which presented itself 
in our path. Our fatigue, however, was 
relieved by the uncommon beauty of the 
scenery around; on the right hand was a 
boundless sea; on the left, the island, with the bay 
by which it was accessible, and the chain of 
rocks, presenting altogether, an assemblage 
of the picturesque, equal to what the liveliest 
fancy could desire. The view reminded me 
of the large flower-stands common in 
Europe; the shelvings, the projections, the 
cornices of which, instead of pots of flowers, 
were covered with plants most rare and 
contrasted, and in a vigorous state of vegetation. 
In the greatest number of these, were 
distinguishable the different families of grasses, 
many of them of the thorn-leaved species, 
and more flourishing than those which are 
cultivated in the green-houses of Europe. 
There was also in abundance the Indian fig, 
with its large broad leaf; aloes of different 
forms and colours; the superb prickly 
candle, or cactus, bearing straight stalks, taller 
than a man, and crowned with long straight 
branches, forming a sort of star. The 
broad plantain spread along the rocks its 
innumerable boughs twisted with each other, 
hanging down perpendicularly, and 
ornamented with flowers, which grew in large 
tufts, and were of the brightest rose-colour; 
while that which pleased us best, and which 
was found there in great abundance, was 
the king of fruits, both for figure and relish, 
the crowned pine-apple. We immediately 
fell on this fruit with avidity, because we 
knew its value and its innocence, and 
because it was fit to be eaten without any 
further preparation than merely gathering it. 
The monkey was not the last to seize one 
for himself; and as he could make higher 
jumps than the boys, they formed the scheme 
of making him angry by little tricks, so as 
to induce him to fling pine-apples at them. 
This game they continued so long, that I 
thought it prudent to interrupt them, fearing 
that the unripe state of the fruit might affect 
their health. My wife and I ate one or two 
with great pleasure; and after bestowing the 
commendations so fine a fruit deserved, we 
agreed that we would frequently return to 
the place, and eat them as a dessert.</p>

<p>Soon after, I was fortunate enough to 
discover, among the multitude of plants which grew 
either at the foot or in the clefts of the rock, 
the karata (the Bromelia Karata of Linnæus), 
many of which were now in blossom, and of 
others the flowers had lately fallen off. They 
resembled young trees; and travellers have 
given so perfect a description of them in 
their books of natural history, that it was 
impossible I should mistake them. But 
what further confirmed their identity, was 
their straight slender stalk, crowned with 
blossoms, and proceeding from a tuft of 
leaves like the pine-apple, with its large 
foliage terminating in a sharp point, and 
forming altogether, a plant remarkably pleasing 
to the eye. I pointed out to the boys the 
immense size of these leaves, which were 
hollowed in the middle like a saucer, in 
which the rain is for a long time preserved; 
and also its beautiful red flowers. As I was 
acquainted with the properties of this useful 
plant, the pith of which is used as tinder 
by the Negroes, who also make a strong 
kind of thread from the fibres of its leaves, 
I was not less satisfied with my discovery, 
than I had been with that of the potatoes; 
and I did not hesitate to assure them, that I 
preferred it to the pine-apples. All answered 
me, their mouths at the same time full of the 
fruit, that they would resign these trees 
with all their flowers to me, if I would leave 
them the pine-apples. The pine-apples are 
better than all the rest, said they, even than 
the potatoes. What is a handsome-looking 
tree worth, if it does not bear any fruit? 
Your most devoted humble servant, Mr. 
Karata, but pine-apples for us!</p>

<p>Little gluttons! cried I, half angry, your 
preference is as senseless as that of a man 
who prefers a woman with a handsome face, 
to one possessed of those valuable and 
lasting virtues which soothe the cares of human 
life. The flavour of the pine-apple gratifies 
your palate; but it is not of necessary use, 
and I will immediately give you a proof that 
I am not wrong in my preference of the karata. 
Ernest, take out my flint and steel, and strike 
me a light.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—But, father, what am I to do for 
tinder? what can I put to receive the sparks?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—This is precisely to the purpose. 
When the tinder which we brought from the 
vessel is all consumed, how shall we be 
able to make a fire? and without a fire, how 
shall we dress a dinner, or prepare 
numberless other matters we have occasion for?</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—Oh, I should not be in the 
least at a loss. We would do like the savages; 
rub two pieces of wood against each other, 
till at length they catch fire.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Many thanks for your 
information: but for us who are not savages, and 
not in the habit of such exercise, the 
expedient would be somewhat inconvenient. I 
would lay a wager, that if you were to rub 
two pieces of wood together for a whole 
day, you would not produce a single spark; 
or if you did, you would wait so long for 
the end you had in view, as to make it 
almost useless.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—If this is the case, we must 
endeavour to have patience till we can find a 
tree that bears tinder, just as we found one 
that bears gourds.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—We might make tinder by 
burning some linen rag, and putting it in a 
close box: but we have, unfortunately, none 
to spare; and, therefore, the best thing for 
us would be to find tinder ready prepared 
in some plant; and in this we may succeed 
by examining our new prize, the karata 
tree.</p>

<p>I then took a dried stalk of the tree, stripped 
off the bark, and there appeared a kind of dry 
and spungy substance, which I laid upon the 
flint; and then striking it with a steel, it 
instantly caught fire. The boys looked on with 
astonishment, and then began to caper 
about, exclaiming: Long live the tinder 
tree!</p>

<p>Here then, said I, we have an article of 
greater usefulness than if it served merely 
to gratify the appetite. Your mother will 
next inform us, what materials she will use 
for sewing your clothes, when her provision 
of thread from the enchanted bag is 
exhausted.</p>

<p><i>My Wife.</i>—I have long been uneasy upon 
this very subject, and would willingly give 
all the pine-apples in the world, in exchange 
for some hemp or flax.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—And your wish shall be accomplished, 
said I. For once I shall have the 
pleasure of presenting you with something 
you eagerly desire to have. If you examine, 
you will find some excellent thread under 
the leaves of this extraordinary plant, where 
all-provident nature has placed a store-house 
of this valuable article, though the lengths 
of thread will be found not longer than the 
leaf. I accordingly examined one of the 
leaves, and drew out of it a strong piece of 
thread of a red colour, which I gave to my 
wife. How fortunate it is for us, said she, 
that you have had the habit of reading and 
of study! None of us would have had a 
thought about this plant, or have conceived 
that it could be of any use; but will it not 
be a little difficult to draw out the little 
lengths of thread through the prickles that 
surround them?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Not in the least; we shall put 
the leaves to dry, either in the sun, or by 
a gentle fire. The useless part of the leaf 
will then separate by being beaten, and the 
mass of thread will remain.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—I see clearly, father, that we 
ought not to trust to appearances; it is the 
same with this tree as with mankind; the 
most merit is often found in an individual 
that was least supposed to possess it: but I 
believe it would be difficult to find any good 
qualities in the prickly plants which are 
growing here in all directions, and 
wounding the persons who go near them: of what 
use can they possibly be?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Again, my son, you form your 
judgement from appearances. The greatest 
part of these plants possess medicinal 
virtues; great use is made in pharmacy of the 
aloe, which produces such abundance of 
beautiful flowers; in green-houses in Europe, 
some have been seen to bear more than 
three thousand blossoms. At Carlsbad, 
upon the estates of Count de Limbourg, 
there was an aloe tree twenty-six feet in 
height; it had twenty-eight branches, which 
branches bore more than three thousand 
blossoms in the space of a month. At Paris, 
at Leyden, in Denmark, there have been also 
seen some exceedingly curious specimens 
of this tree; many of them are full of a 
resinous sort of sap, of which valuable gums 
are made. But look, here, too, is the 
Indian fig or prickly pear, a vegetable of 
no common interest; it grows in the poorest 
soils, and, as you see, upon the rocks; the 
poorer the soil, the more its leaves are thick 
and succulent; I should be tempted to 
believe that it was nourished by the air, rather 
than by the earth. It is also called the 
racket-tree, from the resemblance of its long, 
thick, flat leaves to that well-known 
instrument. This plant bears a kind of fig, which 
is said to be sweet and palatable, when 
ripened in its native sun, and it is both a 
salutary and refreshing food. This, then, is 
another plant of great utility. Scarcely had 
I pronounced these words, than our 
light-footed Jack was on the rock, trying to 
gather some of the fruit; but this time he 
had reason to repent his precipitation; 
for the fruit of this tree is covered with fine 
prickles, which assail the skin of the bold 
hand that dares to gather them. Poor 
Jack soon came down again, crying heartily, 
striking his feet upon the ground, and 
shaking his hand with the pain the prickles 
occasioned. I had not the courage to make 
this the moment for a lesson of morality 
founded upon the effects of his gluttony, 
for which he was sufficiently punished; and 
I reproved his brothers, who stood by 
laughing while I was drawing out the thorns. I 
then instructed them how to gather this 
fruit without incurring the same 
inconvenience. I threw up a stone, and brought down 
a fig, which I caught upon my hat; I cut 
off its two ends, and was thus enabled to 
hold it without injury, while I peeled off 
the skin. I then resigned it to the curiosity 
of my young companions.</p>

<p>The novelty, rather than the taste, of the 
fruit, made them think it excellent: they 
all found means to gather some of the figs, 
and each was busied in inventing the best 
method of taking off the skins: but that 
of Fritz had the best success; he gathered 
his figs, by plunging the sharp point of his 
stick into them, and then pulling the stick 
a little sideways to bring them down: he 
peeled them quite neatly while they were 
still on the stick, and presented several to 
his mother, who partook of them with 
pleasure.</p>

<p>In the mean time, I perceived Ernest 
holding a fig upon the end of his knife, 
turning it about in all directions, and 
bringing it close to his eye with a look of curious 
inquiry. I wish I could know, said at length 
our young observer, what little animals these 
are in the fig, which feed so eagerly upon 
it, and are as red as scarlet.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Ha, ha! this too will perhaps 
turn out a new discovery, and an additional 
source of usefulness, which this plant 
possesses. Let me look at your fig; I will lay 
a wager that it is the insect called the 
cochineal.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—The cochineal! what a droll 
name! What is the cochineal, father?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—It is an insect of the kind called 
<i>suckers</i>, or <i>kermes</i>; he feeds upon the 
Indian fig, which, no doubt, is the cause of 
his beautiful colour, which forms an 
object of considerable importance in the trade 
of a dyer; for nothing else produces so fine 
a scarlet. In America, they stretch pieces 
of linen under the branches, and then shake 
the tree; and when the insects have fallen in 
great numbers, the ends of the linen are 
folded together to inclose them; the insects 
are sprinkled with vinegar or cold water, 
and then dried, and sent to Europe, for the 
use of dyers, who pay a high price for the 
commodity.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—I now perfectly agree with you, 
that this plant is of ten times more use than 
the finest pine-apple: the latter, however, 
has also its merit, and we are not obliged to 
reject the one, if we choose the other: yet, 
as we have not any occasion for a scarlet dye, 
and that the fruit of the fig-tree is certainly 
inferior to the pine-apple, so I think it is but 
reasonable to prefer the last.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—In this you are to blame; I 
have not yet mentioned a still superior 
usefulness peculiar to the Indian fig-tree; it 
serves as a protection to man.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—As a protection to man! Why, 
how can that be, father?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—It is used for making hedges 
round the habitations of man, its prickly 
surface effectually preventing the approach 
of animals; for you see, that besides the 
prickles which took such a fancy to Jack’s 
hand, there is a large thorn at each of the 
knots, which appear in the plant.</p>

<p><i>My Wife.</i>—The largest serve very well 
for pins, and even for nails; see how they 
keep my gown well fastened.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—This, then, you see is a third 
usefulness the Indian fig-tree can boast, and 
of which I was not at first aware. You must 
perceive of what importance these 
inclosures are; and the rather, as they are made 
with so little trouble; for, if you plant only 
one of its leaves in the ground, it 
immediately takes root, and grows with 
astonishing rapidity: it is therefore not only a 
defence against wild beasts, but against 
enemies in general; for they could not get over 
it without cutting through the hedge; and 
during such an operation, which also would 
be attended with some danger, the persons 
within, gain time to escape, or to prepare an 
effectual defence.</p>

<p>Jack, the king of the thoughtless race, 
asserted that this plant was extremely soft, 
and yielding in its nature; and that with the 
assistance of a knife, or even a stick, it 
would be easy to get over such a hedge: to 
prove his assertion, he began to cut down, 
with his clasp knife, a pretty large plant, 
striking every where to right and left with 
all his might, till at length one of the divided 
leaves fell with such violence on his leg, that 
the thorns struck into the flesh, and Jack 
roared out piteously, and quickly seated 
himself upon a stone to disengage it as 
quickly as possible. I could not now, as 
I assisted him to draw out the thorns, refrain 
from laughing a little at this second attack 
of the figs, which was caused solely by his 
obstinacy and his imprudence; I observed 
to him, how difficult it must be, for savages, 
who wear no clothes, to force such a barrier 
as they formed, and for this once, I had the 
pleasure of convincing him.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—Ah, papa, do let us make such 
a hedge round our tree; we shall then have 
no further occasion to light fires to preserve 
us from wild beasts, or even from the 
savages, who from one day to another may 
arrive in their canoes, as they did on Robinson 
Crusoe’s Island.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—And we could, then, easily 
gather the cochineal, and try to make the same 
beautiful scarlet colour.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—We shall have time enough 
for many things, my dear children; but for 
the present, it is sufficient to prove to you, 
that God has not made any thing to be 
wholly useless; and that it is the duty of 
men, on whom he has bestowed the gifts of 
wisdom and intelligence, to employ those 
faculties, in discovering the utility of the 
different productions he has allowed to exist.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—For my part, I have done with 
the Indian fig-tree, its fruit, its cochineal, 
and its ugly thorns, and I will never go near 
it again.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—If the plant could speak, it 
would most likely say: That little boy shall 
not come near me any more. Without any 
reason, or any necessity, but purely out of 
contradiction to his father, he attacks and 
destroys me; me, who would have done 
him service, if he would but have treated 
me with kindness, and have been careful in 
coming near me. And now, Jack, if your 
leg is still painful, apply a leaf of the 
karata to it, for I recollect that the plant 
possesses the property of curing wounds. 
He accordingly took my advice, and in a few 
minutes was able to join us on our road to 
Tent House.</p>

<p>Now then, said Ernest, I have had an 
opportunity of learning the valuable properties 
of the karata tree, and of the Indian fig-tree; 
but I wish I could also be informed 
respecting those tall plants which look like 
sticks covered with thorns, that I perceive 
every where about us; I see neither fruits 
nor insects on them: of what use then, father, 
do you think they can be?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—It is not in my power, my dear 
boy, to explain to you the uses of all the 
plants in the world; I presume that many 
exist which have no other use than 
contributing to the sustenance of different kinds 
of animals; and, as I have already told you, 
it is for man, by his superior intelligence, to 
discover those that can be applied to his 
own use. Many possess medicinal qualities 
of which I am ignorant, and which will 
become better known as the world advances in 
age. It occurred to me that one of the 
plants we saw today, named the prickly 
candle, is of the kind which Bruce describes 
in his <i>Travels to Abyssinia</i>, and of which 
he gives a drawing; the only difference that 
I perceive, being the size. They serve, 
says he, for food to the elephant and the 
rhinoceros; the first with his strong teeth, 
or his trunk, and the latter with his horn, 
lay hold of this seeming stick, and rip it up 
from one end to the other; they then devour 
the pith, and sometimes the rind.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—The palate of these animals 
must surely be made of iron, to be able to 
chew such a thorny substance without 
injury.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Why so? Camels and asses are 
very fond of thistles, and appear to digest 
them extremely well. It is probable, 
therefore, that the stomach of these animals is 
so formed, that these prickly substances 
occasion in it only an agreeable excitation, 
favourable to their appetite and their 
digestion.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Your idea is not a bad one; and 
if it be not true, it is at least probable.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Will you tell me, father, the 
precise difference between <i>true</i> and 
<i>probable</i>?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Your question is one of those 
which have occupied the attention of 
philosophers for two thousand years. It would 
therefore be too tedious to discuss at this 
moment; I will, however, endeavour to 
make my answer such, as to be of use to 
you, in the science of logic, or the art of 
reasoning. Let us see, if you will 
understand it. What we call <i>true</i>, is that which 
cannot in any way be contradicted, and which 
exactly agrees, in every point, with the 
idea we conceive of a certain object, or as it 
really exists before our eyes: for example, 
when I make an impression with my seal 
on some warm wax, it is absolutely <i>true</i> 
that the figure impressed on the wax, is the 
same as that on the seal. A thing is 
<i>probable</i>, when we have a variety of motives 
for believing it true, without, however, being 
able to bring any proof. Again, we call 
<i>false</i>, that which is in positive contradiction 
to all our notions, our reason, and our 
experience. Is it <i>true</i>, <i>probable</i>, or <i>false</i>, 
that a man can fly up into the air?</p>

<p><i>All.</i>—It is false, absolutely false.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—How so?</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—Because the thing is impossible.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Very well, my young 
philosopher, and why is the thing impossible?</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—Because it is not possible.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Ha, ha, ha! here is a pretty 
round of <i>possible</i> and <i>impossible</i>. <i>It is 
false, because no such thing can be done, 
and no such thing can be done, because it 
is not possible.</i> Presently you will tell me 
that it is impossible because it is false. Try 
again, my lads, we must have some better 
reasons. What say you, Ernest?</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—I say, that the thing cannot be 
done, because it is not in the nature of man 
to fly; that, having no wings, he is not formed 
for flying.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Well, but if some one should 
assert, that a man is able to make a machine, 
by the assistance of which he can raise and 
support himself in the air without wings, 
and without the machine’s resting upon any 
thing; would this be <i>probable</i> or 
<i>improbable</i>? What think you, Fritz?</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—I think I should have said 
<i>improbable</i>, if I had not known that people 
have accomplished what you describe by the 
invention of balloons.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—And why should you have 
thought it <i>improbable</i>?</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Because man is, in his nature, 
heavier than the air; and I should have 
supposed, that a machine of whatever kind, 
instead of diminishing, would only add to 
his weight.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Very well reasoned. But you 
would be told that this machine is of large 
dimensions, and composed of a close, light 
kind of silk, and that it is filled with air 
chemically prepared, which being much 
lighter than atmospheric air, tends 
perpetually to ascend, and supports the man in 
the air, as bladders support you upon the 
water. Do you understand all this, my boy? 
and what have you to say in answer?</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Yes, father, I understand it; and 
I perceive how it might be probable, that 
since man has discovered a means to be 
sustained upon water, he might also find 
the means to raise and sustain himself in the 
air.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—And when a multitude of 
persons of veracity, and of different ages, 
shall declare, that with their own eyes they 
saw a balloon, to which a parachute was 
fastened filled with men, and that all 
mounted in the air together, and disappeared above 
the clouds; should you still maintain that it 
is false that a man can fly?</p>

<p><i>All.</i>—No, to be sure, we should say that 
it is quite true that he can fly.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—And yet you all said but a 
minute ago, that it was absolutely false.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Ah! but we said that, father, of a 
man by himself, independently of any 
machine he might construct; for though nature 
has refused him wings, she has not failed to 
bestow on him an inventive mind, which 
more than compensates for that deficiency.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Your observation is perfectly 
just, and I hope you will not fail to profit 
by it. With the aid of his intelligence, and 
his reason, there is scarcely any thing which 
man cannot attain to. But to return to our 
example: you will find in it the definition 
of the words which you ask me about: it 
is <i>false</i>, that man of himself can fly; it is 
<i>probable</i>, that by the aid of a machine of his 
own invention, he may be enabled to mount 
and sustain himself in the air; and it is 
<i>absolutely true</i>, that this has been effected by 
man, though without his having yet found 
a certain means of guiding these factitious 
wings; a defect, which in a great measure 
renders his discovery useless.</p>

<p><i>My Wife.</i>—Well, now we have had a 
long lesson upon the subject, during which 
I have not been able to put in one single 
little word; I am afraid you will make your 
boys so learned, that I shall not know on 
what subjects to converse with them.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—There is no fear of that, my 
dear; for even should I teach them all I 
know myself, they would not be very 
learned. A man should always endeavour to 
acquire knowledge: if he lives in the world, 
he is in consequence the more esteemed, the 
more respected, and knows the better how 
to manage his affairs: if, as will most likely 
be the case with our sons, their lot is to live 
in a kind of solitude, it will be less tiresome 
to them, if they have cultivated the habit of 
thinking and reflecting; so that even the 
little information in my power to give them, 
may be of use. I have never had occasion 
to regret that I knew so much, but often 
that I knew too little, particularly in our 
present situation, where no other master can 
be obtained for them than myself and 
nature. If the boys could conceive what 
advantages they would derive from study, 
they would impose upon themselves the 
strictest application, while at the age when 
learning is so easy. Conversing thus, we 
reached Jackall’s River, which we crossed, 
stepping with great care from stone to stone, 
and very shortly arrived at our old 
habitation, where we found every thing in perfect 
order as we had left it; and we immediately 
dispersed, each in pursuit of what he 
intended to take away. Fritz loaded himself 
with powder and shot; I and my wife and 
Francis employed ourselves in filling our 
pot with butter, the carrying of which on 
our return it was agreed was to fall on me. 
Ernest and Jack looked about for the geese 
and ducks; but as they were become 
somewhat savage, the boys could not succeed in 
catching one of them. The idea then 
occurred to Ernest, of taking a small bit of cheese, 
and tying it to the end of a piece of string, 
and holding it to float in the water. The 
voracious animals hastened eagerly to seize it. 
In this way, Ernest drew them towards him, 
one by one, with the cheese in its mouth, 
till he had caught the whole: he put them 
in their pocket handkerchiefs, leaving only 
their heads at liberty; and then we fastened 
them as a parcel to our game-bags, so that 
each had his share in carrying them.</p>

<p>We had thought of taking back with us 
a provision of salt; but we could not carry 
so much as we wished, the sacks being 
occupied with potatoes. I, however, thought 
of throwing in a certain quantity loose into 
one of them, to fill up the space between 
the potatoes: in this way we secured a 
tolerable supply; but it made the sack so 
heavy, that no one was willing to be 
incumbered with it. Fritz proposed that our 
faithful Turk should carry it; and accordingly 
we took off his superb coat of mail, and 
left it at Tent House, and the sack was tied 
on the back of the quiet, kind-tempered 
animal. Ponto was to carry the monkey as 
before.</p>

<p>We set out on our return, loaded with 
treasures, and the appearance of our caravan 
was even more amusing than it had been 
before: the ducks and geese, with their heads 
and necks stretching out at our shoulders, 
cackling with all their might, gave us a 
truly singular and ludicrous appearance: 
we could not help laughing immoderately as 
we passed the bridge, one after the other, 
loaded in so strange a fashion. Our mutual 
jokes, and the general good humour which 
prevailed, served to shorten the length of 
the walk, and we none of us were sensible 
of fatigue, till we were seated under our 
tree at Falcon’s Stream. My wife now 
prepared to console us, by putting some of the 
potatoes which we so eagerly desired to taste, 
immediately on the fire. She next milked 
the cow and the goat, and refreshed us with a 
draught of their warm milk, giving us a proof 
how the natural strength may be increased, 
by the feelings of conjugal and maternal 
love. The kind-hearted woman was at least 
as much fatigued as any of us; yet she made 
no attempt to rest herself, till she had 
provided us with all she had to give for our 
refreshment. At length, after dining heartily 
on our potatoes, on which we bestowed 
abundance of commendation, we concluded 
the day with evening-prayers, and then 
joyfully climbed our ladder to seek the blessing 
of repose in our aërial castle.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap15" id="chap15" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER XV.<br/>
<small><em>The imaginary bear—The sledge—A lesson 
in natural philosophy.</em></small></h2>

<p><span class="smcap">I had</span> remarked the evening before, on 
our return to the sea-shore, a quantity of 
wood, of which I thought I could make a 
kind of conveyance for our cask of butter and 
other provisions from Tent House to 
Falcon’s Stream. I had secretly determined to 
go early the next morning, before my family 
should be awake, to the spot. I had fixed 
upon Ernest for my assistant, thinking that 
his indolent temper required to be 
stimulated to exertion. I made him feel as a 
great favour the preference I gave him, and 
he promised to be ready at a very early 
hour. I was also desirous to leave Fritz 
with the family, as, being the tallest and 
strongest, he was more able to protect the 
rest.</p>

<p>As soon as I perceived the first dawn of 
morning, I quietly awoke Ernest. He raised 
himself, stretching and gaping in his 
hammock. We descended the ladder without 
being perceived by the rest of the family, 
who continued to sleep soundly. The first 
thing we had to do, was to awake the ass, 
who was to be of our party; and that he 
might not go without a load, I made him 
draw a very large branch of a tree, which I 
wanted for my undertaking. As we walked 
along, I asked Ernest if he was not a little 
out of humour at being obliged to get up 
so early, to set about a laborious 
occupation, instead of remaining with his brothers, 
to shoot at the thrushes and the pigeons on 
the fig tree?</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—Not in the least, father: now 
I am once up and dressed, I do not mind it 
at all; I like being with you, and assisting 
you, very much. My brothers will leave 
plenty of birds for me to shoot; for I will 
lay any wager, that their first fire at least 
will miss.</p>

<p>What makes you think so, my boy?</p>

<p>Because they will all forget to take the 
balls out of the guns, and to put in shot in 
their place: besides, I am sure that they 
will all fire from under the tree, and it is so 
high, that their shot cannot possibly reach 
it. I, for my part, have always fired from 
Tree Castle, which was the only way to 
succeed.</p>

<p>You may be right in your suspicions, 
answered I, but I have two remarks to make. 
The first is, that it would have been kinder 
and more generous in you, to have told your 
brothers these particulars, than to triumph in 
their ignorance; thus exposing them to spend 
their powder, which is so valuable an article, 
to no effect. The second is, that though it 
gives me pleasure to see you act with 
coolness and reflection, yet I am somewhat 
apprehensive of your falling into the habit of 
a certain slowness of decision, which may 
frequently prove injurious; there are 
occasions which require instant resolution, and 
cannot admit of a moment for reflection. 
He who, in a moment of alarm, of danger, 
or distress, preserves his presence of mind 
and decides instantly, has a great advantage 
over him who waits to calculate every 
possibility before he begins to act. This presence 
of mind, joined to great wisdom, is a quality 
of inestimable value, and it may be acquired 
by cultivating a habit of cool reflection and 
inquiry, as to how we should act under such 
or such a circumstance. If we do not acquire 
this habit, we suffer ourselves to be under 
the dominion of fear at the time of danger, 
and are consequently defeated. Let us see, 
for example, what you would do if we were 
suddenly surprised by a bear.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—I almost believe I should run 
away as fast as I could.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—And I believe so too; at least, 
you frankly assure me that it would be so. 
But if you were to reflect, you would 
conclude, that the bear having four legs and 
you only two, he would run much faster 
and for a much longer time than you, and 
would therefore soon overtake you.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—Then I would fire upon him, if 
I had my gun; and now that I reflect upon 
it, I will not go out any more without it.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—This would still be acting 
without reflection; for your gun might easily 
miss fire, or you might only slightly wound 
the animal, and then you would have every 
thing to fear from his rage.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—Well, then, I would wait with 
coolness till he should be only three steps 
from me; I would then fire my gun at his 
head, which would for ever cure him of the 
inclination to attack me.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—It would cure either you or him, 
to a certainty; for you would run the risk 
of your gun’s missing fire, and it would 
then be too late to try any other expedient; 
for you would be torn to pieces in a 
moment.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—Well, then, I would try another 
way. I would lie down on the ground, 
hold my breath, and make believe I was 
dead, and the bear would turn me over and 
over; for it is said they will not touch a 
dead body.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—This is a great mistake; I 
would advise you not to trust to it. Bears 
are often known to devour dead animals, 
and that they are even a powerful attraction 
to them.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—Oh, but I would be prepared 
with my clasp knife, with which I would 
settle him in a trice, or I would knock him 
on the head with the end of my gun.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—All ineffectual means, I assure 
you. Do you think you would have strength 
enough to destroy so formidable a creature? 
or that you could penetrate so thick a hide 
with your clasp knife? Nor would you 
have the resource of climbing up a tree, for 
bears climb also. The only means you 
could use, and I confess it would be most 
cruel, would be to give up the ass to him, 
by keeping him before you in readiness. 
When the bear should begin the attack, 
you might try to shoot him with your pistol, 
or to plunge your knife into his throat. But 
I trust we shall have no such animal to 
encounter; for I should be sorry to sacrifice 
our poor ass, even in defence of our own 
lives.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—And I too, father; but if there 
were no other means?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—In such a case it is permitted 
to use the remedy, inhuman as it seems; 
while at the same time we should form a 
hope that it might be possible to save the 
ass also.</p>

<p>In this kind of conversation we reached 
the sea-shore, well content to have met with 
no bear, and at finding pieces of wood in 
great abundance, and to obtain which was 
the object of our walk. I determined to 
cut such pieces as I wanted, of the proper 
length, and to lay them cross-ways on the 
branches which the ass had drawn to the 
place, and by this means to make them 
serve as a kind of sledge. We lost no time 
in setting to work, and we added to the load 
a little chest, which we found half buried 
in the sands, quite close to the waves. We 
also provided ourselves with some poles 
which lay there, that we might use them as 
rollers, should we stand in need of them for 
passing difficult places, and then we set out 
on our return to Falcon’s Stream. When 
we were within a certain distance of our 
abode, we heard a loud firing, which 
informed us that the attack upon the ortolans 
was in good train; but on seeing us 
approach, the cries of joy which were uttered, 
resounded in every direction, and all ran 
eagerly to meet us. The chest we had 
brought was soon opened by a strong hatchet, 
for all were eager to see what was within. 
It contained only some sailor’s dresses and 
some linen, which was quite wet with the 
sea.</p>

<p>I had to account to my wife for having 
absented myself with one of the boys, 
without giving her notice, or bidding her adieu. 
She had been uneasy, and I confessed I had 
been to blame. In such a situation as ours, 
so many unforeseen and painful events might 
happen! She had discovered, however, that 
we had taken the ass with us, and this 
circumstance had consoled her. The sight of 
so many useful pieces of wood, and the 
promise of a sledge for better security in 
conveying her provisions for the table, soon 
appeased her discontent, and we sat down 
tranquilly to breakfast.</p>

<p>I next inspected the booty of the three 
sportsmen, who had shot, in all, no less than 
fifty ortolans and thrushes. As Ernest had 
foretold, their first fire missed; afterwards 
they had had various luck, now missing and 
now hitting, and had used so large a quantity 
of powder and shot, that when, by their 
brother’s advice, they were about to get up 
the tree and fire from thence, my wife and I 
stopped them, recommending a more frugal 
use of those materials, as they were our only 
means of defence, or of procuring food in 
future, or at least till we could make another 
visit to the vessel. I taught them how to 
make some snares to be suspended from the 
branches of the fig-tree, and advised them 
to use the thread of the karata, which is as 
strong as horse-hair, for the purpose. What 
is new always amuses young persons, and 
the boys accordingly took a great fancy to 
this mode of sporting. Jack succeeded in 
his very first attempt; I left Francis to 
assist him, and took Fritz and Ernest to help 
me in making the sledge. As we were all hard 
at work, for my wife had joined the youngest 
boys, we suddenly heard a prodigious clatter 
among the fowls; the cock crowed louder 
than all the rest together, and the hens ran 
to and fro, as if they were pursued by a fox. 
I wonder what is the matter with the 
creatures, said my wife, rising; every day I hear 
the hens clucking as if they had been 
laying eggs. At this moment Ernest happened 
to look at the monkey, and remarked that 
he fixed his piercing eyes on the hens; and 
when he saw my wife approaching, driving 
the hens before her, he jumped quickly into 
a hollow place, under one of the roots of the 
tree, and hid himself. Ernest ran to the 
place as soon as he, and was fortunate enough 
to seize him, seeing that he held a new-laid 
egg in his paw, which he was going to 
conceal in this place for a future regale. The 
monkey sprang immediately to such another 
hole, and Ernest followed; here also he 
found some eggs, and brought them in his 
hat to his mother, who received them with 
great pleasure. The monkey was so greedy 
of this food, that he was sure to seize the 
eggs as soon as the hens had laid them. We 
inflicted no other punishment upon him for 
this little piece of knavery, than that of tying 
him up when the hens were about to lay. 
By this means, my wife soon collected a 
considerable number of eggs, and we waited 
with impatience for the time when the hens 
would sit, in the hope of seeing their species 
multiplied.</p>

<p>In the mean while, Jack had got up into 
the tree, and had suspended some of the 
snares to the branches, to catch the little 
devourers of our figs; he came down 
again to bring us the acceptable intelligence, 
that our pigeons, which we brought from the 
vessel, had made a sort of nest there of 
some dry grass, and that it already 
contained several eggs. I therefore forbade 
the boys from firing any more in the tree, 
for fear of alarming or wounding these 
gentle creatures. I also directed, that the 
snares should be frequently examined, to see 
that the pigeons were not caught in them, as 
they might be strangled in their efforts to get 
loose. I should now even have forbidden 
the use of the snares, if I had not myself 
made them known to the boys, and that so 
very lately. It is imprudent at all times, 
for a tutor to contradict himself, and thus 
prove to his pupils that he was wrong in 
issuing such or such a command; a single 
word revoked on the part of the tutor, will 
occasion ten to be revoked by the pupil. 
We should always duly reflect before we 
lay a command on a child; but when once 
the word is pronounced, it should never be 
recalled, whether from caprice, from a 
disposition to indulge the child, or even from 
conviction. My sons had all murmured at 
my prohibition, in regard to the gunpowder; 
and little Francis with his innocent face 
came running to tell me, that we need only 
to sow some of it, and that he and his 
brothers were ready to bestow any labour, to 
have a large quantity of it at their own 
disposal. We all laughed heartily at the idea, 
and Professor Ernest did not overlook the 
advantage of the occasion, to display his science. 
My little sprig of wisdom, cried he, we may 
judge how much you know of what you 
are talking about; your field of gunpowder 
indeed! Do you think then, that gunpowder 
comes from seeds, like oats?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—How else, then, is it produced, 
Mr. Professor? At least, you might be so 
good as to inform your little brother what 
you yourself know of its nature, since you 
laugh at his great ignorance on the 
subject.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—I know that it is produced by 
art, but of the manner in which it is made, 
I confess I am myself ignorant. I imagine 
that it is prepared from charcoal, since it is 
so black, and that sulphur, of which it smells 
so strong, is mixed with it.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Add some saltpetre, and your 
answer will not be amiss; the saltpetre is in 
reality the principal ingredient; mixed with 
charcoal, it easily takes fire, and rarefies or 
expands the air that is mixed with it, by 
means of its elastic force. Touched with a 
spark of fire, it acts with extraordinary 
vehemence, and drives forward with astonishing 
force, whatever resists its action. So that 
balls or shot, impelled by this irresistible 
force, strike the object against which they 
impinge, so as to take away life: as you and 
I, and Fritz and Jack, see happen to us every 
day in letting off our guns.</p>

<br/>

<p>The boys now had a thousand questions 
to propose, which brought on a sort of lesson 
in natural philosophy, as well as I could 
make it such, with the degree of information 
I possessed, and without instruments for 
experiments. The eldest boys understood the 
lesson pretty well, having previously some 
notion of the subjects; but little Francis, 
on hearing me say that the heat contained in 
bodies was brought out by motion or 
friction, asked, ludicrously enough, whether, in 
running very fast, he should not be in 
danger of being set on fire and burnt?</p>

<p>Your ideas run too fast, my little fellow, 
said I; but this I can tell you, that when a 
young boy like you, uses violent exercise, he 
runs at least the risk of inflaming his blood, 
and getting into a fever, or some other 
dangerous disease; and there results 
something like the burning you talk of, that 
may prove no less dangerous. But my 
remark is almost equally applicable to a person 
who takes too little exercise, and abandons 
himself to idleness; for such habits tend to 
vitiate the humours, and to corrupt the blood. 
Thus, my dear children, in this, as in every 
thing else, it is advisable to observe a just 
medium.</p>

<p>During this conversation, I was busily 
employed upon my sledge, which was soon 
completed; and I found that necessity had 
converted a preacher of moderate talents into 
a tolerably good carpenter. Two bent pieces 
of wood, the segments of a circle, formed 
the outline of my machine, which I fixed in 
their places, by a straight piece of wood, placed 
across, and firmly fixed to the bent pieces in 
the middle, and at the rear. I then fastened 
two ropes to the front of my work, and my 
sledge was finished. As I had not raised my 
eyes from my work, I did not know what 
my wife and the two youngest boys had been 
about. On looking up, I perceived that 
they had been stripping off the feathers from 
a quantity of birds, which the boys had 
killed, and that they afterwards spitted them 
on an officer’s sword, which my wife had 
turned into this useful kitchen utensil. I 
approved of the idea; but I blamed her 
profusion of dressing more birds at once than 
we could eat. She reminded me, that I had 
myself advised her to half roast the birds 
before putting into the butter, to be 
preserved for future use. She was in hopes, 
she said, that as I had now a sledge, I should 
not fail of going to Tent House after dinner, 
to fetch the cask of butter, and in the mean 
while, she was endeavouring to be ready with 
the birds. I had no objection to this, and 
immediately determined on going to Tent 
House the same day, and requested my wife 
to hasten the dinner for that purpose. She 
replied that this was already her intention, as 
she also had a little project in her head, 
which I should be informed of, at my 
return. I, for my part, had one too, which 
was to take a bathe in the sea, and thus 
refresh myself from the heat and fatigue of my 
laborious occupations. I wished that Ernest, 
who was to accompany me, should bathe 
also; while Fritz was to remain at home for 
the protection of the family.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap16" id="chap16" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER XVI.<br/>
<small><em>A bathing, a fishing, the jumping hare, and 
a masquerade.</em></small></h2>

<p><span class="smcap">As</span> soon as Ernest and I had dined, we 
prepared for our departure. Fritz presented 
each with one of the best cases of his own 
workmanship, which we stuck through our 
belts, and which, in reality, were ingeniously 
contrived for holding spoons and knives and 
forks, while room was left in the middle for 
a little hatchet. I praised Fritz for having 
thus brought his idea to perfection, and for 
contriving to make two cases with his skin 
instead of one. He had used the skin of the 
two fore-legs of the animal for one, and of 
the two hind legs for the other, and reserved 
the place in the middle, for the hatchet. 
Ernest showed a warmth of gratitude for 
his share in the benefit, of which I had not 
thought him capable.</p>

<p>We now set about harnessing the ass and 
cow to our sledge; each took a piece of 
bamboo-cane in hand, to serve as a whip; 
and resting our guns upon our shoulders, we 
began our journey. Ponto was to 
accompany us, and Turk to remain behind. We 
bade adieu to our companions, and put our 
animals in motion. We took the road by 
the sea-shore, where the sands afforded better 
travelling for our vehicle, than the thick wild 
grass. We reached Family Bridge, on 
Jackall’s River, and arrived at Tent House, 
without either obstacle or adventure. We 
immediately unharnessed the animals to let 
them graze, while we set to work to load the 
sledge, with the cask of butter, the cask of 
cheese, a small barrel of gunpowder, 
different instruments, some ball, some shot, and 
Turk’s coat of mail. These exertions had 
so occupied our thoughts, that it was late 
when we first observed that our animals, 
attracted by the excellent quality of the grass 
on the other side of the river, had repassed 
the bridge, and wandered so far as to be out 
of sight. I was in hopes they would be 
easily found, and I directed Ernest to go with 
Ponto and bring them back, intending in the 
mean time to look for a convenient place, on 
the other side of Tent House, to bathe in. 
In a short time I found myself at the 
extremity of Providence Bay, and which ended, 
as I now perceived, in a marsh, producing 
the finest bulrushes it was possible to 
imagine; and further on, a chain of steep rocks, 
advancing somewhat into the sea, and 
forming a kind of creek, as if expressly contrived 
for bathing. The juttings of the rock even 
seemed like little separate cabinets, where 
one might be concealed from one’s 
companions. Enchanted with this discovery, I 
called out to Ernest to come and join me, 
and in the mean time, I amused myself with 
cutting some of the rushes, and imagining 
what use I could apply them to. Ernest 
neither replied nor came: so, after waiting a 
little, I resolved to go in pursuit of him, for 
I was unable to refrain from some uneasy 
sensations at his absence. Looking about 
in all directions, I at length discovered him 
at a distance, extended at his length on the 
ground, in the shade produced by Tent 
House. I approached him with a beating 
heart, fearing he might have been attacked 
by some wild beast; and was agreeably 
surprised at finding him in a sound and quiet 
sleep, while the ass and the cow were eating 
the grass close to the place where he lay.</p>

<p>Come, come, young traveller, you must 
awake, cried I, shaking him: while you are 
sleeping here, your animals may once more 
make their escape. He instantly awoke 
starting, and was soon on his feet. Oh! 
but I defy them to escape across the bridge, 
said he, rubbing his eyes; for I have taken 
away some of the planks, and left a space 
which they will have no great inclination to 
jump over.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Since your idle fit has rendered 
you inventive, I forgive it with all my heart; 
but is it not a pity to lose in sleeping the 
opportunity of doing something useful? 
Did you not promise your mother to carry 
her some salt? Slothfulness is always a 
fault, where labour is a necessity.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—But, father, my head was not 
idle, I assure you. I was planning 
something all the time.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Really, Ernest! Why, this is 
quite a novelty, for a boy of your age. Pray 
tell me what important and profound study 
it was, which made you go to sleep.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—I will tell you. I was thinking, 
deeply, how difficult it would be to bring 
away from the vessel every thing which it 
contains.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—And did you hit upon some 
method for removing the difficulty?</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—No, father, no great things; I 
fell asleep in the middle of my reflections.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—So, this is the hard work your 
poor head was engaged in!—Discovering a 
difficulty, and finding no means for 
conquering it!</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—At this very moment an idea 
strikes me.—We ought to have a large raft; 
but the beams of the ship are too heavy for 
the purpose: I think it would be better to 
take a number of the empty casks, and nail 
some planks upon them to keep them all 
together. I have read that the savages of 
America fill the skins of goats with air, tie 
them to each other, and are thus enabled to 
use them as rafts upon the largest rivers.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—This is a sound idea, and one 
day or other we may perhaps derive 
advantage from it: but for the present, my boy, 
we must make up for lost time: run, 
therefore, and fill this little bag with salt, which 
you will then empty into the large one that 
the ass is to carry; and which you will take 
care to fill equally on each side. During 
this time, I will take the refreshment of 
bathing; and then it will be your turn to bathe, 
and mine to take care of the animals. I 
returned to the rocks, and was not 
disappointed in my expectation of an enjoyment 
the most delicious; but I did not stay long, 
fearing my boy might be impatient for his 
share of so new a pleasure. When I had 
dressed myself, I returned to the place, to see 
if his work had advanced; but he was not 
there, and I supposed that he had again 
fallen asleep in some corner. Presently, 
however, I heard his voice calling out, 
father, father, a fish! a fish of monstrous 
size! Run quickly, father, I can hardly 
hold him! he is eating up the string of my 
line! I ran to the place from which the 
voice proceeded, and found Ernest lying 
along the ground on his face, upon the 
extremity of a point of land, and pulling in his 
line, to which a large fish was hanging, and 
beating about with all his strength. I ran 
hastily and snatched the rod out of his hand, 
for I had some apprehension that the weight 
and activity of the fish, would pull him into 
the water. I gave a certain liberty to the 
line, to calm the fish, and then contrived to 
draw him gently along, till I had got him 
safely into a shallow, from which he could 
no longer escape, and thus the animal was 
effectually secured. We next examined him 
thoroughly, and it appeared to me that it 
could not weigh less than fifteen pounds; so 
that our capture was magnificent, and would 
afford the greatest pleasure to our good 
steward of provisions at Falcon’s Stream. 
You have now really laboured, said I to 
Ernest, not only with your head, but with 
your whole body; and I would advise you to 
wipe the perspiration from your face, and 
keep a little quiet before you venture into 
the water. You have procured us a dish of 
great excellence, which will last for several 
days, and have conducted yourself like a 
true chevalier, without fear and without 
reproach.</p>

<p>It was at least fortunate, observed he in a 
modest tone, that I thought of bringing my 
fishing-rod.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Certainly it was. But tell me 
how you came to see this large fish, and what 
made you think you could catch it?</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—I used to remark when we lived 
at Tent House, that there were innumerable 
quantities of fish in the water, just 
hereabout; the recollection of this circumstance 
made me determine to bring my 
fishing-tackle with me. In my way to the place 
where we keep the salt, I perceived a great 
number of little crabs, upon which fishes 
feed, near the water’s brink; I thought I 
would try to bait my hook with one of them; 
so I hurried my task of fetching the salt, and 
came to this spot, where at first I caught 
only about a dozen little fish, which are there 
in my handkerchief; but at the same time 
I remarked, that they were chased in the 
water by fishes of larger size. This gave 
me the idea of baiting my hook with one of 
the small ones; but the hook was too small, 
and my rod too weak. I then took one of 
the finest of the bulrushes you had just 
gathered, and put a larger hook to my line, and 
in a short time the large fish you see there 
seized upon the bait, and paid his life for his 
voracity. However, I must confess, that if 
you had not come to my assistance, I must 
either have let go my line, or have been 
dragged into the water; for the fish was 
stronger than I.</p>

<p>We now examined the smaller fishes he had 
caught, which for the most part, appeared to 
me to consist of trout and herrings, while I 
felt certain that the large one was a salmon. 
I immediately cut them all open, and rubbed 
them in the inside with salt, that they might 
not be injured by the heat. While I was 
employed in this occupation, Ernest went to 
the rocks and bathed, and I had time to fill 
some more bags with salt, before his return. 
We then set about harnessing and loading 
our animals; after which we restored the 
planks which had been taken from the 
bridge, and then resumed the road to 
Falcon’s Stream.</p>

<p>When we had proceeded about half way, 
Ponto, who had been walking quietly on 
before us, suddenly escaped, and by his barking 
gave us notice that he scented some game. 
We soon after saw him pursuing an animal, 
which seemed endeavouring to escape, and 
made the most extraordinary jumps 
imaginable. The dog continuing to follow, the 
creature in trying to avoid him, passed within 
gun-shot of the place where I stood. I fired, but 
its flight was so rapid, that I did not hit. 
Ernest, who was at a small distance behind, 
hearing the report of my gun, prepared his 
own, and fired it off at the instant the 
singular animal was passing near him, in pursuit 
of a hiding-place among the tall herbage 
just by: he had fired so skilfully, that the 
animal fell dead at the same instant. I ran 
hastily, and with extreme curiosity, to 
ascertain what kind of quadruped it might be. 
We found it, in form and general appearance, 
the most remarkable possible to conceive. It 
was of the size of a sheep, with a tail 
resembling that of a tiger; both its snout and 
hair were like those of a mouse, and its teeth 
were like a hare’s, but much larger; the 
fore legs resembled those of the squirrel, and 
were extremely short; but to make up of 
this, its hind legs were as long as a pair of 
stilts, and of a form strikingly singular. We 
examined the creature for a long time in 
silence; I could not be sure that I had ever 
seen an engraving of it in any Natural 
History, or a description of it in any book 
of Travels. Ernest, after a long and close 
examination, interrupted our silence by an 
exclamation of joy: And have I really killed 
this extraordinary animal? said he, clapping 
his hands together. What will my mother 
and my brothers say? How astonished they 
will be! and how fortunate I am in securing 
so fine a prize! What do you think is its 
name, father? I would give all the world to 
know.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—And so would I, my boy; but 
I am as ignorant as you. One thing, 
however, is certain, that this is your lucky day; 
for you have already performed two wonderful 
feats, by destroying two monsters, in the 
course of it; so that I shall be tempted to 
give you the name of my little Hercules. 
You also sometimes deserve that of my little 
Solomon. So let us both examine this 
interesting stranger with attention, that we may 
be certain to what family of quadrupeds it 
belongs: this will perhaps throw a light 
upon its name.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—I think it can hardly be named 
a quadruped; for the little fore legs look 
much more like hands, as is the case with 
monkeys.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—They are notwithstanding legs, 
I can assure you. Let us look for its name 
among the animals who give suck; on this 
point we cannot be mistaken. Now let us 
examine its teeth.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—Here are the four incisory teeth, 
like the squirrel——.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Thus we see that it belongs 
to the order of Nibblers. Now let us 
look for some names of animals of this 
kind.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—Besides the squirrels, I recollect 
only the mice, the marmots, the hares, the 
beavers, the porcupines, and the jumpers.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—The jumpers! That word 
furnishes the necessary clue; the animal 
is completely formed like the gerboa or 
jumping hare, except that it is twice the 
size of those of which I have read a 
description...... Wait a moment, an idea strikes 
me. I will lay a wager that our animal is 
one of the large jumpers, called kangaroo; 
it belongs properly to the genus <i>Didelphis</i> 
or <i>Philander</i>; because the female, who 
never bears more than one young one, carries 
it in a kind of purse placed between her hind 
legs. To the best of my knowledge, this 
animal has never been seen but on the coast 
of New Holland, where it was first observed 
by the celebrated navigator Captain Cook. 
You may then be highly flattered with your 
adventure, in killing an animal at once so 
rare and so remarkable.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—You had very nearly, however, 
deprived me of the honour. How happened 
it, father, that you missed him? you, who 
are so much better a shot than I! I confess 
I should have been much mortified in your 
place.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—I, on the contrary, rejoice in the 
circumstance.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—Well, that is droll enough; and 
I cannot understand how any one can 
rejoice at having missed an animal in firing. 
Will you explain it to me?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—I rejoice, because I love my son 
better than myself, and take a more lively 
interest in his pleasure, and in any little 
cause of exultation he may have, than if the 
occasion were more immediately connected 
with myself.—Ernest, affected by my 
remark, ran to embrace me. How truly I 
recognise in this assurance the kind temper 
of my ever indulgent father! cried he.—Your 
gratitude but increases my satisfaction, 
added I, embracing him in my turn; but 
now let us see if we shall be able to drag 
the animal to the sledge. Ernest requested 
that I would rather assist him to carry it, as 
he was afraid of spoiling its beautiful 
mouse-coloured skin, by dragging it on the ground. 
I therefore tied the fore legs of the kangaroo 
together; and by means of two canes, we 
with considerable trouble contrived to carry 
it to the sledge, upon which it was 
securely fastened.</p>

<p>Ponto, who first discovered the kangaroo, 
had lost the scent, and was scampering about 
in the tall grass, no doubt with the hope of 
recovering his prey. We called him to us, 
and loaded him with caresses and applauses: 
but he seemed indifferent to our most 
flattering addresses; he kept close to the 
kangaroo, and licked its wound, which was still 
bleeding. Having now nothing more to 
detain us, we continued our road towards 
Falcon’s Stream. As we walked along, we 
conversed on the subject of natural history, 
and on the necessity of studying it in our 
youth, that we might learn to class plants 
and animals according to their characteristic 
marks; and we observed, that to such a 
knowledge as this it was owing, that we had 
recognised the kangaroo. Ernest entreated 
me to tell him all I knew about the animal. 
It is, said I, a most singular kind of 
creature; and having hitherto been little observed, 
it furnishes but few particulars for narration. 
Its fore legs, as you see, have scarcely the 
third part of the length of the hind ones, 
and the most it can do, is to make them 
serve the purpose of walking; but the hind 
legs enable it to make prodigious jumps, 
the same as in the flea and the grasshopper. 
The food of the kangaroo consists of herbs 
and roots, which they dig up very skilfully 
with their fore legs. They place themselves 
upon their hind legs, which are doubled 
under them, as if on a chair, and by this 
means are able to look above even the tall 
kinds of grass; they rest too upon their tail, 
which is exceedingly strong, and is also of 
great use to them in jumping, by assisting 
the spring from the ground. It is said that 
the kangaroo, if deprived of its tail, would 
scarcely be able to jump at all.</p>

<p>We at length arrived happily, though 
somewhat late, at Falcon’s Stream, having 
heard from a great distance the kind 
welcome of the salutations of our family. Our 
companions all ran to meet us: but it was 
now, on seeing the ludicrous style of the 
dress of the three boys, our turn for 
immoderate fits of laughter: one had on a sailor’s 
shirt, which trained round him like the robe 
of a spectre; another was buried in a pair 
of pantaloons, which were fastened round 
his neck and reached to the ground; and 
the third had a long waistcoat which came 
down to the instep, and gave him the exact 
form of a travelling portmanteau. They all 
tried to jump about; but finding this 
impossible from the length of their garments, they 
next resolved to carry off the whole with an air, 
by strutting slowly to and fro in the manner of 
a great personage in a theatre. After some 
hearty laughing, I inquired of my wife what 
could be the cause of this masquerade, and 
whether she had assisted them in attempting 
to act a comedy for our amusement. She 
disclosed the mystery by informing me, that 
her three boys had also been into the water, 
to bathe, and that while they were thus 
engaged, she had washed all their clothes; but 
as they had not dried so soon as she expected, 
her little rioters had become impatient, and 
had fallen on the chest of sailor’s clothes, 
and each had taken from it what article he 
pleased. I preferred, said she, that you 
should see them in this odd sort of a disguise 
rather than quite naked, like little savages; 
in which opinion, I assured her that I heartily 
joined.</p>

<p>It was now our turn to give an account of 
our journey: in proportion as we advanced 
in our narrative, we presented, one after 
another, casks, bulrushes, salt, fish, and 
lastly, with infinite triumph, our beautiful 
kangaroo. In a trice it was surrounded, 
examined, and admired by all, and such a 
variety of questions asked, that Ernest and I 
scarcely knew which to answer first. Fritz 
was the only one who was a little silent. I 
saw plainly by his countenance, what was 
passing in his mind. He was jealous of the 
good fortune of his brother Ernest; but I also 
saw, that he was struggling manfully against 
the ascendancy of so mean a passion, and 
was resolving to conquer it. In a short time, 
he had succeeded so completely, that he 
joined frankly and unaffectedly in our 
conversation and merriment, and I am persuaded, 
no one but myself perceived what was passing 
in his mind. He came near the kangaroo, 
and examined it with great attention; then 
turning to his brother, he observed to him 
in a kind tone, that he had had good luck, 
and that he must be a good shot to have 
killed the kangaroo with so little difficulty. 
But, father, said he, when you go again to 
Tent House, or on any other excursion, 
will it not be my turn to go with you? For 
here at Falcon’s Stream there is nothing new 
to amuse us; a few thrushes, and some 
pigeons; this is all we have from day to 
day, and I find it very tiresome.</p>

<p>I will promise you with all my heart 
what you desire, my dear boy, said I, for you 
have valiantly combated the ill humour and 
the jealousy which assailed your temper, on 
witnessing your brother’s success with the 
kangaroo. I therefore promise, that you 
shall accompany me in my very next 
excursion, which will probably take place at no 
greater distance of time than tomorrow; and 
it will be another journey to the vessel. But 
in the mean time, let me observe to you, my 
dear Fritz, that you ought to be more 
flattered with the high opinion I must entertain 
of your prudence and judgement, in leaving 
you here, in charge of your mother and your 
brothers, than with the applause due to the 
event of killing a kangaroo. You have 
accomplished an important duty, in keeping 
near them all the time, and not suffering 
yourself to be allured by such amusements 
as presented themselves to your fancy; and 
this conduct has increased my affection and 
respect for you. Some praise is also due to 
Ernest, for the moderation with which he has 
felt his triumph, in so extraordinary an 
occurrence; for he has not even told you of my 
humiliating failure in attempting to shoot 
the kangaroo. To triumph over our 
passions, and to have on all occasions a perfect 
government of our temper, is an acquisition 
of infinitely more value, than the showing a 
certain skill in firing off a gun, and killing 
an innocent animal. We happen, in our 
situation, to be forced upon the cultivation of 
such arts as these; but though we may 
practise them as necessary for our existence, we 
have no reason to be proud of them.</p>

<p>We concluded the day with our ordinary 
occupations; I gave some salt to each of our 
animals, to whom it was an acceptable treat. 
We next skinned our kangaroo, and put it 
carefully aside till the next day, when we 
intended to cut it to pieces, and lay such 
parts in salt, as we could not 
immediately consume. We made an excellent 
supper on our little fish, to which we added 
some potatoes, nor were our faithful 
companions Turk and Ponto neglected. The 
labours of the day had more than usually 
disposed us all to seek repose; we therefore 
said our prayers at an early hour, mounted 
our ladder, and were soon asleep.</p>

<br/>

<p class="ph4" style="text-indent:0em; text-align:center">THE END OF PART I.</p>

<hr/>


</div><!--end chapter-->


<div class="chapter">

<hr class="hr3"/>

<p style="font-size:300%; text-indent:0em; text-align:center"><b>PART II.</b></p>

<hr class="hr3"/>

</div><!--end chapter-->


<div class="chapter">

<header><p class="ph3" style="text-indent:0em; text-align:center; font-size: 130%;"><small>THE</small><br/>
<br/>
FAMILY ROBINSON CRUSOE.</p></header>

<hr class="hr4"/>

<h2 style="page-break-before: avoid"><a href="#chap17" id="chap17" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER XVII.<br/>
<small><em>More stores from the wreck.</em></small></h2>

<p><span class="smcap">I rose</span> with the first crowing of the cock, 
before the rest of the family was awake, 
descended the ladder, and employed myself 
in carefully skinning the kangaroo, so as not 
to deface its beautiful mouse-coloured coat; 
and it was really high time to think about it. 
Our dogs were so well satisfied the 
preceding evening with their meal on the entrails 
of the animal, that they became partial to it, 
and had just sprung up in the design of 
making a complete breakfast of the whole 
carcase. Before I was at the bottom of the 
ladder, they had torn off the head of the 
kangaroo, which I had suspended at some 
height by the hind feet, and, half friends 
half foes, they were going to divide it 
amongst them, when my presence 
opportunely prevented the partition. It occurred 
to me, that as I had neither cellar nor safe to 
keep my provisions in, it behoved me to give 
them a slight correction: growling and 
barking, they took refuge under the roots, and 
the half-suppressed kind of howling they 
continued to make, awoke my wife, who, on 
missing me, came down alarmed to know 
what was the matter. For the love of God, 
exclaimed she, what has happened? Are the 
dogs run mad, or have you lost your 
senses?—Nothing of the kind, I answered; I was 
only giving our dogs a short sermon on 
temperance and the necessity of self-control.—Then 
better it would be to enforce your 
precepts by example, to begin by subduing anger, 
and not by exercising your vengeance on 
poor faithful animals, who are innocent, and 
unconscious of the mischief they are doing.</p>

<p>Kind-hearted creature, said I: it is well 
known to me how glad you would be if there 
were no sticks in the world! But I assure 
you I did not beat Turk and Ponto through 
anger or revenge, but from prudence and 
precaution; and be persuaded I have not 
hurt them much: they modestly intended 
only to eat up our kangaroo, which you 
promised yourself such pleasure in cooking; 
and unable as I was to acquaint them in the 
canine tongue, that it was not placed there 
for their use, it was proper to let them know 
this in such a way as to deter them in future; 
otherwise, as they are strongest, they would 
end by devouring all our stock.</p>

<p>My wife owned I was in the right: but I 
observed her from a corner of my eye 
hovering about the roots, and patting the dogs to 
console them. As to myself, I set about 
stripping my kangaroo, and endeavoured to 
remove the skin entirely without injuring it; 
but this gave me so much trouble, and I 
advanced so slowly in the business, that all my 
little family were assembled about me and 
their mother, and calling out, Famine, before 
I had finished my work. Having completed 
it, I went to the stream to wash myself 
thoroughly, and then to the sailor’s chest to 
change my coat, that I might make a decent 
appearance at breakfast, and give my sons 
an example of that cleanliness which their 
mother was at all times eager to inculcate. 
Breakfast over, I ordered Fritz to prepare 
everything to go to Tent-House, and prepare 
our boat, that we might proceed to the vessel. 
At the moment of departure, wishing to take 
leave of all my family, I found that Ernest 
and Jack were wanting: their mother knew 
no more than myself what was become of 
them, but she thought they were gone to 
get some potatoes, which we wanted. I 
charged her to reprove them a little for this, 
to prevent their accustoming themselves to 
stray from home alone and without leave, 
in an unknown country; but they had taken 
Turk along with them this time, and I was 
therefore the less uneasy.</p>

<p>We began our journey after having taken 
an affectionate leave of my wife and of my 
little Francis. I left Ponto with her, and I 
entreated her not to be uneasy, and to 
commit herself to the care of the kind Providence 
who had till then so graciously watched over 
us, and who would again bring us back to 
her safe and sound, enriched with many 
things conducive to our welfare. But to 
bring her to reason on the subject of these 
trips to the vessel, was impracticable: I left 
her bathed in tears, and praying God that 
this might be the last.</p>

<p>We separated with mutual emotion, 
hastening our steps to make our stay the shorter, 
and we soon reached and crossed the bridge: 
at this moment, to our astonishment, we 
heard the shrill sounds of human voices, and 
almost at the same time we saw Ernest and 
master Jack come forth from a bush, 
delighted to have half alarmed us.—Ah! did 
not you think we were savages? said Jack;—or 
some of the vessel’s company? 
continued Ernest.</p>

<p>——Or rather, said I, two little thoughtless 
rogues whom I soon knew, and am much 
inclined to chide as they deserve, not for 
their little artifice, but for having left their 
home without permission.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—Oh! father, we have such a desire 
to go with you to the vessel, and we were 
afraid you would refuse us if we asked you; 
but we thought that when you saw us so 
near to the place, you would consent to our 
accompanying you.</p>

<p>Very badly argued, my young gentleman, 
replied I. At Falcon’s Stream I might 
perhaps have consented, although I have so 
many things to take, that it would be wrong 
to let you occupy a place in the boat; but 
as it is, I would on no account leave your 
poor mother in anxiety the whole day as to 
what is become of you, and you cannot 
yourselves desire it: besides, I have a commission 
to give you for her that I have much at heart. 
I then requested them to tell her that it was 
probable we should be forced to pass the 
night on board the vessel, and not return to 
her till the evening of the following day. I 
knew that was what she most feared, and I 
had wanted resolution to apprise her of this 
possibility: I was to blame for this weakness, 
for not to see us return at the expected time 
was still more painful; yet it was of 
essential consequence to get out of the vessel, if 
it yet remained afloat, all that could be saved, 
as every moment might complete its 
destruction, and all our future hopes be swallowed 
up with it. With this view I told my sons 
what they should say to their mother; I 
exhorted them to obey and to assist her; and 
that their excursion might not be useless, I 
made them collect some salt, and I enjoined 
them to be at Falcon’s Stream before noon. 
I suffered in knowing the double anguish of 
my poor wife, resulting from our departure 
and the prolonged absence of two of her sons. 
To be sure of the fulfilment of this order, I 
requested Fritz to lend Ernest his silver 
watch, and told him he would find a gold 
one in the vessel, in which case he would 
allow his brother to keep the one he lent him, 
and that we might perhaps get another for 
Jack. This hope filled them with joy, and 
consoled them for not going on with us.</p>

<p>After having bid adieu to our dear boys, 
we got into the boat, and we left the shore 
to gain the current of the stream: thus we 
quickly cleared Safety Bay, and reached the 
vessel, whose open side offered us an ample 
space to get up it. As soon as we had got 
on board and our boat was securely fastened, 
our first care was to look out for fit materials 
to construct a raft. I wished to begin by 
executing an excellent idea suggested by my 
son Ernest. Our boat being built of staves 
had neither room nor solidity enough to 
carry a considerable burthen; we therefore 
looked about, and soon found a sufficient 
number of water-casks which appeared to me very 
proper for my intended new enterprise. We 
immediately emptied them, then replaced the 
bungs carefully, and threw the casks 
overboard, after securing them by means of ropes 
and cramps, so as to keep them together at 
the vessel’s side: this completed, we placed 
a sufficient number of planks upon them to 
form a firm and commodious platform or 
deck, to which we added a gunwale of a foot 
in depth all round, to secure the lading. 
Thus we contrived to possess a very 
handsome raft, in which we could stow thrice as 
much as in our boat. This laborious task 
had taken up the whole day; we scarcely 
allowed ourselves a minute to eat a mouthful 
of cold meat we had provided for the 
expedition, that we might not lose any time in 
looking for the provisions on board the vessel. 
In the evening, Fritz and I were so weary, 
that it would have been impossible for us to 
row back to land, even if our business had 
not detained us; we therefore came to 
the necessary resolution of passing the night 
on board; and having taken all due 
precautions in case of a storm, we reposed ourselves 
in the captain’s cabin, on a good elastic 
mattress essentially different from our 
hammocks: in fact, it so lulled us to rest, and 
induced such sound repose, that our 
prudent design to watch in turn for fear of 
accident, quite escaped us, and we both slept 
heavily, side by side, till broad day-light 
opened our eyes, when we awoke with lively 
gratitude to that Providence to whom we 
were indebted for the quiet and comfortable 
night we had passed. We rose, and actively 
set to work to load our raft.</p>

<p>In the first place we completely stripped 
the cabin which had been occupied by my 
family on board the vessel, removing every 
thing it contained which belonged to us 
previous to the fatal event of the wreck: from 
it we proceeded to the one in which we had 
slept so well, and carried off the very doors 
and windows, with their appendages; some 
valuable chests of the officers were there: 
but this discovery and the rich lace clothes 
which seemed to court our grasp, were less 
acceptable to us than the carpenter’s and 
gunner’s chests, containing all their tools 
and implements: those we could remove 
with levers and rollers, were put entire upon 
the raft; and we took out of the others what 
rendered them too heavy. One of the 
captain’s chests was filled with a number of 
costly articles, which no doubt he meant to 
dispose of to the opulent planters of Port 
Jackson, or among the savages. In the 
collection were several gold and silver watches, 
snuff-boxes of all descriptions, buckles, 
shirt-buttons, necklaces, rings, in short an 
abundance of all the trifles of European luxury; 
there was also a strong box full of louis d’or 
and dollars, which attracted our notice less 
than another containing a very pretty 
table-service of fine steel, which we had 
substituted for the captain’s that were silver, and for 
which my wife had shown no small regard: 
but the discovery that delighted me most, 
and for which I would readily have given the 
box with the louis, <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr> was a chest 
containing some dozens of young plants of every 
species of European fruits, which had been 
carefully packed in moss for transportation. 
I perceived pear, plum, almond, peach, apple, 
apricot, chesnut trees, and vine shoots. I 
beheld with a feeling I cannot describe, those 
productions of my dear country, which once 
so agreeably embellished my rural dwelling, 
and which, if God vouchsafed to bless them, 
would thrive in a foreign soil. We 
discovered a number of bars of iron and large 
pigs of lead, grinding-stones, cart-wheels 
ready for mounting, a complete set of 
farrier’s instruments, tongs, shovels, 
ploughshares, rolls of iron and copper wire, sacks 
full of maize, pease, oats, vetches, and even 
a little hand-mill. The vessel had been 
freighted with every thing likely to be useful 
in an infant colony so distant; nothing had 
been forgotten. We found a saw-mill, in a 
separated state, but each piece numbered, 
and so accurately fitted, that nothing was 
easier than to put it together for use.</p>

<p>I had now to consider what of all these 
treasures I should take or leave. It was 
impossible to carry with us in one trip such a 
quantity of goods; and to leave them in the 
vessel, ready to fall to pieces and threatened 
every moment with complete destruction, 
was exposing ourselves to be wholly deprived 
of them, while every article so lost would 
be a subject of regret to us.</p>

<p>Ah! said Fritz, let us leave, in the first 
place, this useless money and the chest of 
trinkets; except the watches we promised 
my brothers: all the rest can be of no 
service to us.</p>

<p>It gives me pleasure, my boy, to hear you 
speak thus of gold, that idol so universally 
adored: we will do, then, as you wish, and 
determine upon taking with us what is really 
useful, such as the powder, lead, iron, the corn 
and the fruit-trees, implements for 
gardening and agriculture; let us take as many as 
possible of these: if we should have any 
room left, we can then select a few of the 
objects of luxury: however, begin by taking 
from the chest the two watches I have 
promised, and keep the best of them for 
yourself.</p>

<p>We then loaded our raft, not without 
difficulty and hard labour; we moreover stowed 
away for use in a chest, a large and handsome 
fishing-net, quite new, and the vessel’s great 
compass. With the net, Fritz found luckily 
two harpoons and a rope windlass, such as 
they use in the whale fishery. Fritz asked 
me to let him place the windlass, with the 
harpoons attached to the end of the rope, 
over the bow of our tub-boat, and thus 
hold all in readiness in case of seeing any 
large fish; and as I thought it was unusual 
to meet with these so near the shore, I 
indulged him in his innocent fancy.</p>

<p>It was afternoon before we had finished 
our lading; for not only our raft was as full 
as it could hold, but our boat likewise.</p>

<p>Having well and completely executed our 
undertaking, both as to construction and 
lading, we stepped into the tub-boat, and 
with some small difficulty, which a little 
reflection and a few experiments soon 
enabled us to overcome, we pushed out for the 
current, drawing our raft triumphantly after 
us with a stout rope, which we had been 
careful to fasten securely at its head.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap18" id="chap18" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER XVIII.<br/>
<small><em>The tortoise harnessed.</em></small></h2> 

<p><span class="smcap">The</span> wind was in a humour favourable to 
our undertaking, and briskly swelled our 
sail; the sea was calm, and we advanced 
without fear at a considerable rate. Fritz 
had been looking steadfastly for some time at 
something of a large size which was floating 
at some distance on the water, and he now 
desired me to take the glass and see what it 
could be. I soon perceived distinctly that it 
was a tortoise, which, agreeably to the habits 
of its singular species, had fallen asleep in the 
sun on the surface of the water, and we 
observed that it did not in the least appear 
sensible of our approach. No sooner had Fritz 
gained this information, than he earnestly 
entreated me to steer softly within view of so 
extraordinary a creature, that he might 
examine it at his ease. I readily consented; 
but as his back was towards me, and the sail 
was between us, I did not observe what he 
was about, till a violent jerk of the boat, a 
sudden turning of the windlass, and then a 
second jerk, accompanied by a rapid motion 
of the boat, gave me the necessary explanation. 
For Heaven’s sake what are you about, 
Fritz? exclaimed I. Have you a mind to 
destroy us with your thoughtlessness, which 
has put it out of my power to govern the 
boat?</p>

<p>——I have caught him,—I touched him, 
cried Fritz, without hearing one word I had 
been saying.—The tortoise is ours, it cannot 
escape, father! Is not this then a valuable 
prize, for it will furnish dinners for us all for 
many weeks!</p>

<p>I soon admitted the idea that in reality the 
harpoon had secured the animal, which, 
feeling itself wounded, thus agitated the vessel 
in its endeavours to be disengaged, for the 
rope of the harpoon was necessarily fastened 
at the other end to the windlass. I quickly 
pulled down the sail, and seizing a hatchet, 
sprung to the boat’s head to cut the rope, 
and let the harpoon and the tortoise go; but 
Fritz caught hold of my arm, conjuring me 
to wait a moment, there being no immediate 
cause for alarm, and not so hastily bring 
upon him the mortification of losing, at one 
stroke, the harpoon, the rope, and the 
tortoise; he proposed watching himself, with 
the hatchet in his hand to cut the rope 
suddenly should any sign of danger appear. I 
yielded to his entreaties, after a due 
exhortation to him to take good care not to upset 
the boat, or run her upon the rocks.</p>

<p>Thus then, drawn along by the tortoise, 
we proceeded with a hazardous rapidity, and 
having no small difficulty to keep the rudder 
in a straight direction, and so to steady the 
boat, as to prevent her yielding to the 
irregular motions of so singular a conductor. 
In a little time I observed that the creature 
was making for the sea; I therefore again 
hoisted the sail; and as the wind was to the 
land, and very brisk, the tortoise found 
resistance of no avail: he accordingly fell into 
the track we desired to take, and we soon 
gained the current which had always 
received us in our visits to and from the wreck: 
he drew us straight towards our usual place 
of landing, and by good fortune without 
striking upon any of the rocks which so 
much abound in that spot. We, however, 
did not disembark without encountering one 
difficult adventure. I perceived that the 
state of the tide was such, that we should be 
thrown upon one of the sand-banks, and this 
accordingly took place: we were at this 
time within a gun-shot of the shore; the 
boat, though driven with violence, remained 
perfectly upright in the sand. I stepped 
into the water, which did not reach far above 
my knees, for the purpose of conferring 
upon our conductor his just reward for the 
alarm he had caused us, when he suddenly 
gave a plunge, and I saw him no more; 
following the rope, I however soon found the 
tortoise stretched at length at the bottom of 
the water, where it was so shallow that I 
was not long in finding means to put an end 
to his pain by cutting off his head with the 
hatchet; when he soon bled to death. 
Being now near Tent-House, Fritz gave a halloo, 
and fired a gun, to apprise our relatives that 
we were not only arrived, but arrived in 
triumph. This soon produced the desired 
effect: the good mother and her three young 
ones soon appeared, running towards us; 
upon which Fritz jumped out of the boat, 
placed the head of our sea-prize on the 
muzzle of his gun, and walked to shore, which 
I reached at the same moment; and all were 
once more received with the kindest 
salutations, and such questions as kindness best 
knows how to propose.</p>

<p>After some gentle reproaches from my 
wife, for leaving her and the boys for so long 
a time, the history of the tortoise was related 
in due form, and excited due interest and 
much merriment in our auditors. The 
tender-hearted mother, after heaving a sigh for 
the hard fate of the creature, began to 
shudder at the thought of the danger we had been 
exposed to, and the escape we had effected. 
We all now fell to a new examination of the 
adventure, and were struck with surprise 
that Fritz should so exactly have hit the 
vulnerable part of the animal, at the first plunge 
of the harpoon: next that the tortoise should 
have gone to sleep, and left this very part 
exposed, contrary to his usual habit of 
drawing the neck within his shell; and lastly, 
that with the harpoon stuck in his flesh, 
and sunk still deeper by the act of drawing 
in his head to save himself, he should yet 
have been able to pull a heavy laden boat 
and a raft tied to it, along, with even an 
alarming degree of rapidity.</p>

<p>Our conversation being ended, I requested 
my wife to go with two of the younger 
boys to Falcon’s Stream, and fetch the sledge 
and the beasts of burden, that we might not 
fail of seeing at least a part of our booty 
from the ship put safely under shelter the 
same evening. A tempest, or even the tide, 
might sweep away the whole during the 
night! We took every precaution in our 
power against the latter danger, by fixing 
the boat and the raft, now, at the time of its 
reflux, as securely as we could without an 
anchor. I rolled two prodigious masses of 
lead, with the assistance of levers, from the 
raft upon the shore, and then tied a rope to 
each, the other ends of which were fastened, 
one to the raft, and the other to the boat, 
and thus satisfied myself that they could not 
easily be forced away.</p>

<p>While we were employed on this scheme, 
the sledge arrived, and we immediately placed 
the tortoise upon it, and also some other 
articles of light weight, such as mattresses, pieces 
of linen, <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr>; for I reckoned that the animal 
itself weighed at least three quintals, the 
strength of our whole party was found 
necessary to move it from the raft to the sledge: 
we therefore all set out together to 
unload it again at Falcon’s Stream. We 
pursued our way thither with the utmost gaiety 
of heart, and found the time pass both 
agreeably and quickly, in answering the numerous 
questions with which the three youngest boys 
assailed us, as to the nature and amount of 
the treasures we had brought from the 
vessel. The chest containing the articles in 
silver, and another filled with trinkets and 
utensils made of different kinds of metals, 
the most powerfully excited their interest; 
for Fritz had dropped a hint of what was in 
them, and nothing could exceed the measure 
of their curiosity.—Are they left on the raft 
or in the boat? asked Ernest. We will open 
them to-morrow, and I shall have my watch.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—I assure you, I shall not be 
content with only a watch; I must have, since I 
hear there are so many, a snuff-box also.</p>

<p><i>Francis.</i>—And I shall ask for a pretty 
purse filled with louis.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Vastly well imagined, my young 
ones.—Jack intends then, I presume, to take 
now and then a pinch of the snuff he has not 
got, and Francis perhaps means to sow his 
louis that they may produce him a crop.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—Now, father, you are for this once 
mistaken; I have no liking for snuff, and 
know very well we have not any: what I 
want the box for is, to preserve in it the seeds 
I mean to collect from all the charming 
plants that we see around us, as, should we 
ever return to Europe, I could then have 
them in our garden. I have also found some 
chaffers, and different kinds of flies, which 
I should also be glad to keep.</p>

<p><i>Francis.</i>—And I should keep my money 
to buy some of the nice cakes mamma used 
to give us. If we stay here long, I dare say 
there will be a fair; and then I will buy as 
many as will last us all a very long time, for 
I like sweet cakes better than the hard 
biscuits mamma gives us now.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—You will wait for a fair long 
enough to tire the patience of a little boy 
like you, Francis; but if you are so fond of 
sweet cakes, I should advise you to make 
them yourself, with some of the honey you 
get so cleverly.—The poor child blushed 
like scarlet; he, a few days before, had 
discovered a swarm of bees and some fine 
honey-combs in a tree, and had attempted to 
beat down a little of them with a stick:—the 
whole swarm rushed out enraged, and lighted 
on him, so that his face and hands were 
severely stung: he thus paid dear for his 
discovery, which might, however, at some 
time or other, prove a useful acquisition to 
us.</p>

<p>In this trifling kind of prate we beguiled 
the time, till we reached the foot of our 
castle. Our first concern, now, was the 
tortoise, which we immediately turned on his 
back, that we might strip off the shell, and 
make use of some of the flesh while it was 
fresh. My wife expressed her fear that we 
should fail in our attempt; but taking my 
hatchet, I separated the upper and under 
shell all round, which were joined together 
by cartilages. The upper shell of the 
tortoise is extremely convex; the under, on the 
contrary, is nearly flat. Having succeeded 
in dividing them, I cut away as much of the 
flesh of the animal as was sufficient for a 
meal, and then laid the remaining mass 
carefully and neatly on the under shell, which 
served as a dish, recommending to my wife 
to cook what I had cut off, on the other 
shell, with no other seasoning than a little 
salt, and pledged myself that she would by 
this means produce a most luxurious food.</p>

<p>My wife asked leave, however, to take 
away the <i>green</i>-coloured part of the flesh, 
which she said she could not even look at 
without distaste.—I answered that she was 
wrong in this; that it was not unusual, for 
a thing that displeased the eye, to be 
agreeable to the taste: I informed her that the 
green was the fat of the animal, and would 
add to the fine flavour and general moisture 
of the dish: but, added I, if you think it is 
too abundant, you can take a part and 
preserve it, by melting, for future use. We will 
then, said I, put what we mean to keep in 
salt, and distribute the head, the entrails, and 
the feet to the dogs; for all, you know, must 
live.</p>

<p>Oh dear papa, cried Francis, do give me 
the shell, it will be such a pretty plaything!</p>

<p>No, no, bawled out another: and one and 
all contended for the preference. I imposed 
silence, declaring that the right was entirely 
in Fritz, since it was he who had harpooned 
the animal, who, but for his dexterity and 
skill, would be at this moment existing in the 
sea.—But, continued I, it may be well to 
ask what each of you thought of doing with 
the shell, if he had obtained it?</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—I should turn it into a shield 
to defend myself with, if the savages should 
come upon us.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Ah, there is my egotist again; 
this is as I expected; but let us see in what 
way you would use it? You would fling it 
across your shoulders no doubt, and take to 
your heels manfully.—I fancy I have guessed 
right, my poor Ernest, have I not?—And 
you, Jack, what have you to say?</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—I should make a nice little boat of 
it, which would help to amuse us all. I was 
thinking how cleverly we could fill it with 
potatoes, or the other things we want to 
take from Tent-House to Falcon’s Nest; it 
would glide along so nicely with the stream, 
and we should be saved all the fatigue we 
now have in carrying them.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Your scheme, I grant, is not 
ill-imagined; but a small raft or an old 
chest would do just as well for your purpose.—And 
now for my little Francis; I wonder 
what pretty plan he had thought of?</p>

<p><i>Francis.</i>—I thought I should build a 
little house, papa, and the shell would make 
such a nice roof to it!</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Vastly well, my lads, if we had 
only our amusement or our ease to think 
of; but I want you all to form the habit of 
thinking and acting for the general good, 
rather than of what will most gratify or 
accommodate his single self.—Now, then, let 
me ask to what use Fritz, the only rightful 
claimant to the shell, had intended to apply 
it?</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—I thought, father, of cleaning it 
thoroughly, and fixing it by the side of our 
river, and keeping it always full of pure 
water for my mother’s use, when she has to 
wash the linen or cook our victuals.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Excellent, excellent, my boy! 
all honour to the founder of the <i>pure 
water-tub!</i> This is what I call <i>thinking for the 
general good.</i> And we will take care to 
execute the idea as soon as we can prepare 
some clay, as a solid foundation for its 
bottom.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—Hah, hah! Now then it is my turn; 
for I have got some clay, which I have put 
by to keep for use, behind those old roots 
yonder.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—And where did you get it, boy?</p>

<p><i>Mother.</i>—Oh, you may apply to me for 
this part of the information; to my cost I 
know where the clay was got.—This 
morning early, my young hero falls to digging 
and scrambling on the hill you see to the 
right, and home he comes with the news 
that he has found a bed of clay; but in so 
dirty a condition himself, that we were 
obliged to think next of the washing-tub.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—And if I had minded a little dirt, 
mother, I should not have discovered this 
bed of clay, which you will see will be of 
great use to us. As I was returning from 
looking for potatoes, I thought I would take 
the high path along the river, just to see how 
rapidly it runs and forms those nice 
cascades: by and by I came to a large slope, 
watered by the river; it was so slippery that 
I could not keep upon my legs: so I fell, 
and dirtied myself all over: on looking, I 
saw that the ground was all of clay, and 
almost liquid, so I made some of it into balls, 
and brought them home.</p>

<p><i>Mother.</i>—And boasted of your discovery 
as if you had made it in consequence of the 
most earnest desire to be of use, while the 
benefit was the result of chance alone. But 
I will not put you further to the blush, my 
boy; you at last confess the truth, and for 
this deserve our praise.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—When the water-tub is 
complete, I will put the roots I have found to 
soak a little in it, for they are now extremely 
dry. I do not exactly know what they are; 
they look something like the radish or 
horseradish, but the plant from which I took them 
was almost the size of a bush: being 
ignorant, however, of its name or nature, I have 
not yet ventured to taste the roots, though I 
saw our sow eat heartily of them.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—It was quite right to be cautious 
my son: but let me look at these roots. I 
am always glad to hear that you observe and 
reflect upon all the objects which fall in 
your way. How did you first discover them?</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—I was rambling about, father, 
and met with the sow, who with her snout 
was turning up the earth under the plant I 
have been speaking of, and stopped only to 
chew and swallow greedily something she 
seemed to find there. I drove her away; 
and on looking into the place, I found a 
knot of roots, which I tore out and brought 
home.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—If my suspicion is right, you 
have made a beneficial discovery, which with 
the assistance of our potatoes may furnish 
us the means of existence as long as we may 
remain in this island! I am tolerably 
certain that these roots are <i>manioc</i>, of which 
the natives of the West Indies make a sort 
of bread or cake which they call <i>cassave</i>. 
But if we would make this use of it, we must 
first carry it through a certain preparation, 
without which these roots possess pernicious 
properties. If you are sure of finding the 
same place, or we can collect enough in any 
other, we will secure a sufficiently large 
quantity for our first experiment, which I have 
great confidence will succeed.</p>

<p>By the time of ending this discourse, we 
had also finished unloading the sledge, and 
I bade the three eldest boys accompany me 
to fetch another load before it should be 
dark. We left Francis and his mother busy 
in preparing what we indeed stood much in 
need of after a day of such fatigue, a 
refreshing meal for supper, the tortoise having 
presented itself most opportunely for this 
effect. I promise you, cried my wife, as we 
were moving off, you shall not at your 
return find reason to complain.</p>

<p>As we walked along, Fritz asked me if this 
handsome shell was of the kind so much 
valued in Europe for making into boxes, 
combs, <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr>? and if it was not a pity to use 
it for a water-tub?</p>

<p>I replied, that in our deserted situation 
the utility of a thing formed its greatest, and 
indeed only value. According to this way 
of reasoning then, were your water-tub of 
diamonds, it would be of no more worth to 
us than the rudest stone, if in such a form as 
to be able to contain water. However, dear 
boy, I shall inform you, for your consolation, 
that our tortoise, which makes such excellent 
food, is not of the species, the shells of which 
are so much esteemed for the uses you have 
mentioned. This latter kind, which is called 
<i>caret</i>, does not furnish a wholesome food, 
its flesh being no less remarkable for its bad 
and unpalatable properties, than those of 
our tortoise for savouriness and 
nourishment. The shell of the caret tortoise is 
prepared for use by the action of heat, which 
separates the layer that from its colour and 
transparency is so attractive, from the 
inferior and useless parts. It is usual to preserve 
even the clippings of the real tortoise shell 
and unite them by heat for making articles 
of small price; but these are much more 
liable to break than the former, and of course 
possess very little of their beauty.</p>

<p>We now reached the raft, and took from 
it as many effects as the sledge could hold, 
or the animals draw along. The first object 
of my attention was to secure two chests 
which contained the clothes of my family, 
which I well knew would afford the highest 
gratification to my exemplary wife, who had 
frequently lamented that they were all 
compelled to wear clothes that were not their 
own; reminding her at every moment, she 
said, how much they might be wanted by 
their proper claimants. I reckoned also on 
finding in one of the chests some books on 
interesting subjects, and principally a large 
handsomely printed Bible. I added to these, 
four cart-wheels and a hand-mill for 
grinding; which, now that we had discovered the 
manioc, I considered of signal importance. 
These and a few other articles completed 
our present load.</p>

<p>On our return to Falcon’s Nest, we found 
my wife looking anxiously for our arrival, and 
ready with the welcome she had promised, 
of an ample and agreeable repast; nor was 
her kind humour diminished by the view of 
the acquisitions we now added to her store of 
necessaries. Before she had well examined 
them, she drew me, with one of her sweetest 
smiles, by the arm,—Step this way, said she, 
and I too will produce something that will 
both refresh and please you. And leading 
to the shade of a tree,—This, continued she, 
is the work I performed in your absence, 
pointing to a cask of tolerable size, half-sunk 
into the ground, and the rest covered over with 
branches of trees. She then applied a small 
cork-screw to the side, and filling the shell 
of a cocoa-nut with the contents, presented 
it to me. I found the liquor equal to the 
best canary I had ever tasted.—How then, 
said I, have you performed this new miracle? 
I cannot believe the enchanted bag produced 
it.—Not exactly, replied she; for this time 
it was an obliging white wave which threw 
on shore the agreeable liquid with which I 
have now the pleasure to regale you. I took 
a little ramble in your absence yesterday, to 
see what I could find, and behold how well 
my trouble was rewarded! The boys ran 
for the sledge, and had but little difficulty in 
getting it to Falcon’s Stream, where our next 
care was to dig a place in the earth, to 
receive and keep it cool. We guessed it must 
contain some sort of wine; but to be quite 
sure, Ernest and Jack bored a small hole in 
the side, and inserting a hollow reed, they 
contrived to taste it, and assured me the cask 
was filled with a most delicious beverage. 
I now thought it was high time to forbid 
their proceeding any further with the <i>tasting</i>, 
fearing for the effect on their poor heads; 
and I closed up the hole with a small piece 
of wood. I have nothing more to relate, 
but that the boys kept the secret, as I desired 
them.</p>

<p>My wife and I agreed that we would now 
recompense them, by giving each a small 
glass of the precious liquor; but the young 
creatures took such a fancy to it, that they 
obtained again and again a little more, till 
at last we perceived their spirits so much 
raised, that we were obliged to refuse their 
further entreaties with gravity and firmness; 
observing to them, that man is required to 
restrain his appetite, and not to abuse, by 
excesses, the good things a bountiful Providence 
allows us for the purpose of rejoicing our 
hearts and strengthening our bodies when 
used with moderation.</p>

<p>By means of this little lecture I 
succeeded in appeasing their turbulence, and in 
drawing them from the dangerous vicinity of 
the cask. For my own part, the generous 
character of the wine had so invigorated me, 
that I found myself able to complete my 
day’s work, by drawing up the mattresses 
we had brought from the ship, to our 
chamber in the tree, by means of a pulley. When 
I had laid them along to advantage, they looked 
so inviting, that I could scarcely resist my 
desire of at once committing myself to the 
kind relief they seemed to offer to my 
exhausted strength.</p>

<p>But now the tortoise, through the voice of 
my wife, laid claim to my attention. The 
savoury smell ascended to our castle; I 
hastened down, and we all partook heartily of 
the luxurious treat. We returned thanks to 
God, and speedily retired to taste the blessing 
of sweet and sound repose upon our 
mattresses.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap19" id="chap19" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER XIX.<br/>
<small><em>Another trip to the wreck.</em></small></h2> 

<p><span class="smcap">I rose</span> before day to go to the sea-side and 
inspect our two vessels. My family did not 
hear me depart, and I was unwilling to 
disturb their balmy sleep, that sweet 
restorative of strength, so requisite for children. I 
therefore gently descended the ladder. 
Above, the scene was all repose; below, I 
found every thing in life and motion. The 
dogs jumped about me for joy, perceiving I 
was going out; the cock and the hens 
flapped their wings and chuckled, and our goats 
shook their long beards as they browsed; 
but the ass, the only creature amongst them 
I was likely to want at that time, still lay 
stretched at full length on the grass, and 
discovered no inclination for the morning jaunt 
I designed for him. Taking less of the 
creature’s feelings into the account than my 
own occasion for his services, I quickly 
roused and harnessed him singly for the sledge, 
not wishing to yoke the cow to it before she 
had been milked. It was unnecessary to call 
the dogs after me. As I walked towards the 
shore, animated at different moments by 
hope and fear, with pleasure I saw there, 
that, with the help of my lead and iron bars 
used as anchors, the boat and raft had 
resisted the tide, though it had partially heaved 
them up. I got quickly on the raft, where 
I took a small loading, and returned to 
Falcon’s Stream in time for breakfast. Judge 
of my surprise when arrived, that I neither 
saw nor heard a single creature of its 
inhabitants, though the sun had climbed high 
above the horizon.—Thinking it time for 
our fellow-labourers to be stirring, I gave a 
shout as loud as a war-whoop. My wife 
awoke first, and wondered to see the day so 
far advanced. Really, my dear, said she, I 
think it must be the magic charm of the 
good mattress you brought home yesterday 
that has lulled me into such a long sound 
sleep, and that appears to be still exerting its 
influence upon our boys. In fact, though 
they rubbed their eyes, they could scarcely 
keep them open: they yawned, stretched, 
turned round, and turned back again. Come 
come, up, my lads, exclaimed I, once again; 
the more we venture to parley with sloth, 
the longer she holds us in her chains; brave 
youths like you, ought to awake at the first 
call, and leap quick and gaily out of bed. 
Fritz, ashamed to have slept so long, was 
dressed first; Jack soon after him, and 
Francis next; the ever-slothful Ernest was 
the last.</p>

<p>Is it possible, dear boy, said I to him, that 
at your age you allow even little Francis to 
get the start of you?</p>

<p>Oh! father, answered he, it is so 
delightful to lose oneself again after having been 
awakened! one feels sleep come on afresh 
so gently, ideas vanish so agreeably! I 
should be glad to be awakened thus every 
morning, that I might have the pleasure of 
falling into a new slumber.</p>

<p>I answer, Ernest, that this is a refinement 
in slothfulness I never heard of till now! It 
is my duty to tell you, and that gravely, if 
you acquire this habit, you will become an 
effeminate useless character. A man, though 
not like us, in a desert, is bound to provide 
for his existence, and avoid being a burthen 
to society; he should do what is right with 
courage and promptness, without consulting 
convenience or pleasure. He who indulges 
himself in all that flatters his senses, will end 
by falling a victim to them. Nature 
produces, too, certain poisons, which are grateful 
to the palate; yet the persons who 
unguardedly taste them, fail not to suffer the death 
they conceal.</p>

<p>After this short admonition, we all came 
down; and prayers and breakfast being over, 
we returned to the sea-side to complete the 
unloading of the raft, that it might be ready 
for sea on the ebbing of the tide. I was not 
long, with the additional assistance I had, 
in taking two cargoes to Falcon’s Stream. At 
our last trip the tide was nearly up to our 
craft. I immediately sent back my wife and 
three children, and remained with Fritz 
waiting till we were quite afloat; when 
observing Jack hovering round us and dilatory 
in following his mother, I perceived his 
wish and assented to his embarking with us. 
Shortly after, the tide was high enough for 
us to row off. Instead of steering for 
Safety Bay to moor our vessels there securely, 
I was tempted by the fineness of the weather 
to go out again to the wreck, which it was with 
considerable difficulty we got up to, though 
aided by a very fresh sea breeze. On our 
getting along-side, it was too late to 
undertake much, and I was unwilling to cause 
my dear partner uneasiness by passing 
another night on-board; I therefore 
determined to bring away only what could be 
obtained with ease and speed: in this 
resolution we searched hastily through the ship 
for any trifling articles that might be readily 
removed. Jack was up and down, every 
where, at a loss what to select; and when I 
saw him again, he drew a wheel-barrow after 
him, shouting and rejoicing at having found 
such a vehicle for the convenient carriage 
of our potatoes. But Fritz next disclosed 
still better news, which was that he had 
discovered behind the bulk-head amid-ship, a 
pinnace (<i>i. e.</i> a small craft, the forepart of 
which is square) taken to pieces, with all its 
appurtenances, and even two small guns for 
its defence. This intelligence so delighted 
me, that I quitted every thing else to run to 
the bulk-head, when I was convinced of the 
truth of the lad’s assertion: but I instantly 
perceived, that to put it together and launch 
it into the sea, would be an Herculean task, 
which I relinquished for the present. I then 
collected some house utensils and whatever 
else I thought most useful; such as a large 
copper boiler, some plates of iron, tobacco 
graters, two grinding-stones, a small barrel 
of gun-powder, and another full of flints, 
which I much valued. Jack’s barrow was 
not forgotten; two more were afterwards 
found and added, with straps belonging to 
them. All these articles were hurried into 
the boat, without our stopping to eat, or in 
any manner refresh ourselves, and we 
re-embarked with speed, to avoid meeting the 
land wind that invariably rises in the 
evening. As we were safely and happily 
drawing near to shore, we were struck with the 
appearance of an assemblage of small figures 
ranged in a long line on the strand, and that 
seemed to be viewing us attentively: they 
were dressed in black, and all uniform, with 
white waistcoats and full cravats: the arms 
of these beings hung down carelessly; now 
and then, however, they seemed to extend 
them tenderly, as if they wished to embrace 
or offer us a token of friendship.</p>

<p>I really think, said I to the boys, who 
were steadfastly gazing at so novel a spectacle, 
that we are in the country of the 
pygmies, and that, having discovered us, they 
wish to form a friendly alliance.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i> Oh, no! father, they are certainly 
Lilliputians, though somewhat bigger than 
those of whom I read the description in 
Gulliver’s Travels.</p>

<p>You, then, child, said I, consider those 
travels as true; that there is an island of 
Lilliput, and inhabited by dwarfs?</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i> Gulliver says so. He met also with 
men of an immense stature, besides an island 
inhabited by horses.....</p>

<p>And yet I must tell you that the only 
reality in all his discoveries is the rich 
imagination of the author, whose taste and feeling 
led him to resort to allegory for the purpose 
of revealing grand truths. Do you know, 
Jack, what an allegory is?</p>

<p>It somewhat resembles a parable, I 
presume.</p>

<p>Right, one is very similar to the other.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i> And the pygmies you mentioned, 
are any to be found?</p>

<p>No more than there are Lilliputians; 
they exist only in poetical fiction, or in the 
erroneous account of some ancient navigator, 
in which a group of monkeys has been 
fallaciously described as diminutive men.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i> Such probably are the mannikins 
that we see now stretching out their arms 
towards us. Ah, now I begin to perceive that 
they have beaks, and that their arms are 
short drooping wings;—what strange birds!</p>

<p>You are right, son, they are penguins or 
ruffs<sup><a id="note1text"/><a href="#note1" class="pginternal">1</a></sup>. They are of the <i>stupid</i> species; 
Ernest killed one soon after our arrival. 
They are excellent swimmers, but cannot 
fly; and so confused are they when on land, 
that they run in the silliest way into danger; 
catching such birds as these, is a fit sport for 
none but the indolent.</p>

<p>While we were talking I steered gently 
towards shore, to enjoy the uncommon 
sight the longer; but the very moment we 
got into shallow water, my giddy boy Jack 
leaped out of his cask up to his waist into it, 
and was quickly on land battering with his 
stick among the penguins before they were 
aware of his approach, so that half a dozen 
of them were immediately laid flat; they 
were not dead, but only stunned: the 
remainder, seeing they were so roughly 
accosted, plunged into the sea, dived, and 
disappeared.</p>

<p>Fritz murmured audibly at his brother 
for having frightened them away before he 
could fire. I could not help laughing at 
this perpetual shooter of guns, who was so 
disposed to waste his powder on animals 
which were to be taken with the hand 
without resistance: I also taunted Jack a little 
for having jumped into the water at the risk 
of being drowned. While I was making 
these observations, the birds, that had been 
merely stunned, gradually recovered, rose 
upon their legs and began a tottering sort of 
march with a gravity which irresistibly 
excited our laughter. I did not allow Jack’s 
game to escape; I took hold of them, tied 
their legs together with reeds, without 
hurting them, and laid them on the beach while 
we were landing our treasures. But as the 
sun declined, and we despaired of finishing 
before night set in, each of us filled a 
barrow in order to take home something. I 
requested that the tobacco-graters and iron 
plates might be in the first load; to these 
we added the penguins living and dead, 
and then set out. As we drew near Falcon’s 
Stream I heard with pleasure the watchful 
dogs proclaim our approach with loud 
barking: they no sooner saw us than they 
ran up with lively demonstrations of joy, and 
in the midst of their rough greetings 
completely overset poor Jack, who was wheeling 
along his barrow with difficulty and some 
ill-humour, and to this he gave vent by 
two or three lusty cuffs of his fist, which 
were divided between his friends Turk and 
Ponto, who so little thought of resenting 
them, that they sprang upon him as often as 
he took his barrow, and thus renewed the 
contest to the no small amusement of his 
brothers, who ran up to disengage him. 
My wife was highly pleased with the 
wheel-barrows and for the most part with their 
contents, but she had no partiality for the 
tobacco-graters.—In the name of Heaven, 
said she, what is the use of these graters? 
Are our four sons to become snuff-takers? 
Luckily for my fears, said she, the article is 
not to be obtained in our island.</p>

<p>No, dear wife, I replied; and pray do 
not be uneasy about them; these graters are 
not for the gratification of our noses; I am 
too happy in having myself abandoned the 
bad and filthy habit of snuff-taking, to permit 
my sons to use it. Come, children, said I, 
pointing to the penguins, look after the 
new-comers to the poultry-yard. I then directed 
them to fasten the birds one by one to a 
goose or a duck, as a means of taming and 
inuring them to the society of their 
companions. This essay, however, was tedious and 
inconvenient to our feathered animals, who 
were but slowly reconciled to their singular 
companions. My wife now showed me a 
good store of potatoes which she had got in 
during our absence, and a quantity of the 
roots I had taken for manioc, and in which I 
was not mistaken: I much applauded her 
diligence and foresight, and gave Ernest 
and little Francis their share of 
approbation.</p>

<p>Papa, we have worked very hard indeed, 
said the latter; what will you say when we 
have a fine crop of maize, melons, dates, 
and gourds? Mamma has planted all these in 
the potatoe holes.</p>

<p>I must tell you, master Francis, exclaimed 
his mother, you are a little thoughtless 
babbler. Why did you tell my secret? you 
have spoiled all the pleasure I promised 
myself in surprising your father with my new 
plantation.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i> I am sorry for this, my dear; 
but be assured I am not the less gratified 
for hearing of your kindness in this 
unexpected manner. But tell me, I beseech you, 
where did you procure all these seeds and 
grains, and how came you to think of so 
extraordinary a plan?</p>

<p><i>Mother.</i> I took the grain and seeds from 
the bottom of my enchanted bag, and your 
thirst after fresh booty and your endless 
trips to the wreck are the sources of the 
resolution I formed to increase the number of 
your comforts at home, and thus render 
them the less necessary. I determined then 
during the fine season to fit up a 
kitchen-garden, and to sow as much of it with seed 
as I was able to dig and put in order; at the 
same time taking particular care to leave all 
the smallest-sized potatoes in the ground, 
that they might produce us a full and 
abundant crop.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i> This was well thought, my love; 
but we must not despise the trips to the 
vessel neither; this very day we unexpectedly 
discovered in her a new and handsome little 
pinnace, which at some time or other may be 
of the greatest service to us.</p>

<p><i>Mother.</i> I cannot say that this discovery 
gives me very much pleasure; I have no 
desire to trust myself again on the sea; but 
should it at any time be absolutely necessary, 
I must confess I should prefer a well made 
solid vessel to our miserable raft composed 
of tubs.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i> Well, this you shall possess, if you 
will consent to my returning once more to 
the wreck; in the mean while, let us have 
some supper, and then we will retire to rest; 
and if my little workmen should be 
industriously inclined to-morrow, I shall reward 
them with what to children is always a source 
of pleasure—the novelty of a new trade to 
be learnt. This did not fail to excite the 
curiosity of all; but I kept my word, and 
made them wait till the following day for the 
explanation I had to give.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap20" id="chap20" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER XX.<br/>
<small><em>The bake-house.</em></small></h2> 

<p><span class="smcap">I waked</span> the boys very early, reminding 
them that I had promised to teach them a 
new trade. What is it? What is it? 
exclaimed they all at once, springing suddenly 
out of bed and hurrying on their clothes.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—It is the art of baking, my boys, 
which at present I am no more acquainted 
with than yourselves; but we will learn it 
together, and I am much mistaken if we 
shall not be able to produce an excellent 
batch of bread, which will be the greater 
luxury, from our having been altogether 
deprived of it during our residence in this 
island. Hand me those iron plates that we 
brought yesterday from the vessel, and the 
tobacco-graters also.</p>

<p><i>Mother.</i>—I really cannot understand what 
tobacco-graters and iron plates can have to do 
with making bread; a good oven would 
afford me much better hopes, and this, 
unfortunately, we do not possess.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—These very iron plates, the same 
you looked so disdainfully upon no longer 
since than yesterday, will serve the purpose 
of the things you are now wishing to have.—I 
cannot, it is true, promise, in this early 
attempt, to produce you light and handsome-looking 
bread; but I can answer that you 
shall have some excellent-tasted cakes, though 
they should be a little flat and heavy;—we 
will immediately make our experiment. 
Ernest, bring hither the roots found 
underground: but first, my dear, I must request 
you to make me a small bag of a piece of 
the strongest wrapper linen.</p>

<p>My wife set instantly to work to oblige 
me; but having no great confidence in my 
talents for making cakes, she first filled 
with potatoes the large copper boiler we 
had brought from the ship, and put it on 
the fire, that we might not find ourselves 
without something to eat at the time of 
dinner: in the meanwhile I spread a large 
piece of coarse linen on the ground, and 
assembled my young ones round me to begin 
our undertaking; I gave each of the boys a 
grater, and showed him at the same time 
how to rest it on the linen, and then to grate 
the roots of manioc; so that in a short time 
each had produced a considerable heap of a 
substance somewhat resembling pollard. The 
occupation, as is always the case with 
novelties, proved infinitely amusing to them all, and 
they looked no further into the matter; one 
showed the other his heap, saying in a 
bantering tone: Will you eat a bit of nice cake 
made of grated radishes?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Make as merry as you please, 
young gentlemen, on the subject of this 
excellent production of nature, which ere long you 
will acknowledge to have yielded you a most 
palatable kind of food; a food which is 
known to be the principal sustenance of whole 
nations of the continent of America, and which 
the Europeans who inhabit those countries 
even prefer to our wheaten bread. I must 
tell you, there are many kinds of manioc; 
one of these shoots rapidly, and its roots 
become mature in a short time; a second sort 
is of more tardy growth; and there is 
another, the roots of which require the space 
of two years to be fit for use. The first two 
kinds have pernicious or unwholesome 
qualities when eaten raw, but the third may be 
eaten without fear: for all this, the two first 
are generally preferred, as being more 
productive, and requiring a shorter time for being 
fit for use.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—One would think only madmen 
could prefer those that are pernicious: we 
cannot to be sure but be overwhelmed with 
gratitude for some cake that is to kill us (and 
the young rogue threw his grater from him as 
he spoke)! who shall tell us that our fine 
roots here are not of the same pernicious kind?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—At all events we shall not eat them 
raw; as nearly as I recollect, the tardy kind, like 
these we have procured, grow in the form of 
a bush; while the other two are creeping 
plants. However, to be quite sure, the first 
thing we will do, shall be to press the 
pollard.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—For what end, father, shall we 
press it?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Because, even in the pernicious 
kind it is only the sap which is hurtful; 
the more substantial part being when dried 
extremely wholesome and even nourishing. 
But that we may act with the greatest 
possible prudence, we will give some of our 
cakes to the fowls and to the monkey, before 
we venture to eat of them ourselves; if they 
do them no harm, we may then proceed to 
feast on them with safety.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—Thank you, father; but I have no 
fancy to let my monkey be poisoned.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—You may be perfectly easy, Jack, 
for the preservative instinct of your monkey 
is such, that he would not touch it if it were 
poisonous; animals are in this respect better 
treated than man, who is called upon to use 
his reason in supplying the deficiency: at 
all events, however, we will give him so little 
that no harm can possibly ensue.</p>

<p>Upon this Jack picked up his grater, and 
with the others began to grate the roots with 
new alertness: dread of the poison had for 
an instant palsied every arm; but a very short 
time was now sufficient for producing a 
considerable quantity of ground manioc. By 
this time my wife had completed the bag. I 
had it well filled with what we called our 
pollard, and she closed it effectually by 
sewing up the end. I was now to contrive a 
kind of press: I cut a long, straight, 
well-formed branch, of considerable strength, 
from a neighbouring tree, and stripped it of 
the bark; I then placed a plank across the 
table we had fixed between the arched roots 
of our tree, and which was exactly the right 
height for my purpose, and on this I laid the 
bag; I put other planks again upon the bag, 
and then covered all with the large branch, 
the thickest extremity of which I inserted 
under an arch, while to the other, which 
projected beyond the planks, I suspended all 
sorts of heavy substances, such as lead, 
our largest hammers and bars of iron, which, 
acting with great force as a press on the bag 
of manioc, caused the sap it contained to 
issue in streams, which flowed plentifully on 
the ground.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—This machine of yours, father, 
though simple, is as effectual as can be 
desired.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Certainly. It is the simplest 
lever that the art of mechanism can furnish, 
and may be made extremely useful.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—I thought that levers were never 
used but for raising heavy masses, such as 
blocks of stone, and things of that degree of 
weight; I had no notion that they were ever 
used for pressing.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—But, my dear boy, you see that 
the point at which the lever rests on the 
planks, must always be the point of rest or 
compression; the point at which its extremity 
touches the roots of the tree would no doubt 
be that of the raising power, if the root was not 
too strong to yield to the point of the lever; but 
then the resistance at the point of compression 
or rest is still stronger, and presses effectually, 
as you see, the contents of the bag. The 
Negroes, however, have another manner of 
proceeding; but it would have been much 
too tedious in the process for us to imitate. 
They make tresses of the bark of a tree, and 
with it form a kind of basket of tolerable 
size; they fill it with manioc, and press it so 
tightly that the baskets become shorter, and 
increase in breadth; they then hang the 
baskets to the strongest branches of trees, and 
fasten large stones to them, which draw the 
baskets again lengthways; by which action 
upon the manioc, the sap runs out at the 
openings left by the tresses.</p>

<p><i>Mother.</i>—Can one make no use of this 
sap?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Certainly, we may: the same 
Negroes use it as food, after mixing with it a 
considerable quantity of pepper; and, when 
they can procure them, some sea crabs. The 
Europeans, on the other hand, leave it to 
settle in vessels till it has formed a sediment; 
they then pour off the liquid part, wash the 
sediment with fresh water, and place it to 
dry in the sun: in this manner they obtain 
from it an excellent sort of starch, which is 
used for clearing linen. I must tell you that 
the potatoe also contains the same sort of 
substance, which may be put to the same use: 
for the rest, the latter is less nourishing than 
the manioc.</p>

<p><i>Mother.</i>—But pray tell me, are we to 
prepare the whole of this manioc at once? 
If so, we have at least a whole day’s work, 
and a great part must be spoiled at last.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Not so, my dear; when the 
pollard is perfectly dry, it may be placed in 
casks, and being shut closely down, it will keep 
for years; but you will see that the whole of 
this large heap will be so reduced in quantity 
by the operation we are going to apply of 
baking, that there will be no cause for your 
apprehension.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Father, it no longer runs a single 
drop; may we not now set about making 
the dough?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—I have no objection; but it 
would be more prudent to make only a small 
cake, at first, by way of experiment, which 
as I said before we will give to the monkey 
and the fowls, and wait to see the effect, 
instead of exhausting our whole store at once.</p>

<p>We now opened the bag, and took out a 
small quantity of the pollard, which already 
was sufficiently dry; we stirred the rest 
about with a stick, and then replaced it 
under the press. The next thing was to fix one 
of our iron plates, which was of a round 
form, and rather convex, so as to rest upon 
two blocks of stone at a distance from each 
other; under this we lighted a large fire, and 
when the iron plate was completely heated, 
we placed a portion of the dough upon it 
with a wooden spade. As soon as the cake 
began to be brown underneath, it was turned, 
that the other side might be baked also.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—O how nicely it smells! what a 
pity that we may not eat some of it 
immediately!</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—And why not? I would eat some 
without the least fear; and would not you, 
Francis?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Hah, hah! What is then 
become of our terrible fear of being poisoned, 
which made you even throw your grater 
from you? Ah, I see how it is; the passion 
of gluttony is stronger than your fear.—However, 
I certainly believe that in this case 
it might be gratified without doing you an 
injury; nevertheless it is better perhaps to 
wait till the evening, and not run a greater 
risk than the loss of one or two of our fowls 
and of the monkey; and we may say this 
trial of the cake will be the first service he 
has rendered us.</p>

<p>As soon as the cake was cold, we broke 
some of it into crumbs, and gave it to two 
of the fowls, and a larger piece to the monkey, 
who nibbled it with a perfect relish, making 
all the time a thousand grimaces to testify his 
content, while the boys stood by envying the 
preference he enjoyed.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Now tell me, father, how the 
savages manage to grate their manioc, for 
surely they have not, like us, an instrument 
fitted for the operation:—and tell me also, if 
they call their composition by the name of 
cake or bread, as we do?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—The savages having no such 
article as bread in their bill of fare, have 
consequently no word in their language to 
express it. At the Antilles, the bread from 
the manioc is called <i>cassave</i>; the savages 
make a kind of grater with sharp stones, or 
shells; or when they can get nails, on which 
they set a high value, they drive them into 
the end of a plank, and rub the manioc upon 
it. But now, I pray you, good wife, give us 
quickly some dinner, and we will afterwards 
resume the baking trade, provided our tasters 
show no signs of the colic or swimming in 
the head.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Are these, then, the only effects 
of poison, father?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—At least they are the most 
ordinary ones: there are poisons which paralyse 
and induce a heavy sleep; such are opium, 
if taken in too large a quantity; hemlock, 
<abbr>&amp;c.</abbr> <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr> Others are sharp and corrosive, 
attacking the stomach and intestines: of this 
class are arsenic, sublimate, and the 
pernicious sorts of mushrooms. If, when either 
of these has been swallowed, there be not 
immediate assistance procured, the human 
machine stops, becomes disorganized, and 
the patient dies.—I will take this occasion, my 
dear children, to caution you against a kind 
of fruit extremely dangerous in its nature, 
and the more so from the remarkable 
attraction of its external appearance. This fruit 
is frequently found in America on the banks 
of rivers or in marshes, and you may 
perhaps meet with it in this island. Its aspect is 
agreeable to the eye, resembling a handsome 
kind of yellow apple with red spots. It is, 
however, one of the strongest poisons in the 
world: it is even said to be dangerous to 
sleep under the shade of the tree which 
produces it. Be very careful, therefore, should 
you happen to meet with it: it is known by 
the name of <i>mancenilla</i>. Indeed I cannot too 
seriously exhort you not to venture on eating 
any thing you may find, however alluring in 
appearance, till you have first consulted me. 
Promise me this, children, one and all of you.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—I promise you heartily, father; and 
still further, I will keep my word more 
faithfully than Adam did towards God, who had 
forbidden him to eat of a certain apple.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—You will do well in this; but 
do not so presumptuously and so readily 
blame that in another which under the same 
circumstances you would have done 
yourself; I would lay a wager that you would be 
the first to be led away by any worthless 
knave who should come and tell you that I 
had been laughing at you all the while, that 
the mancenilla is the finest apple in the 
world, and that by eating it you would be 
rendered as strong as a lion; that ready 
appetite of yours, and that little vanity we now 
and then discover in you, would make you, 
I fear, forget my advice, and greedily devour 
the apple.—But this is enough on the 
subject; instead of thinking more of poisons, let 
us resort with confidence to our plentiful dish 
of boiled potatoes; perhaps, dear wife, you 
have some little relish to add to them to 
day:—what, I pray you, may there be in that 
boiling vessel yonder?</p>

<p><i>Mother.</i>—It is the penguin that Jack killed 
and brought home.</p>

<p>To say the truth, we did not take a fancy 
to the dish, the bird being of a strong and 
fishy flavour. Jack, however, was of a 
different opinion, and he was left at full liberty 
to regale himself to his appetite’s content.</p>

<p>The first thing we did after dinner was to 
visit our fowls. Those among them which 
had eaten the manioc, were in excellent 
condition, and no less so the monkey, who gave 
us sufficient proofs of life and health in the 
multitude of gambols and grimaces he 
exhibited. Now then to the bakehouse, young 
ones, said I—to the bakehouse as fast as you 
can scamper. The grated manioc was soon 
emptied out of the bag, a large fire was 
quickly lighted, and when sufficiently 
fervent, I placed the boys where a flat surface 
had been prepared for them, and gave to 
each a plate of iron and the quantity of a 
cocoa nut full for them to make a cake 
apiece, and they were to try who could succeed 
the best. They were ranged in a half circle 
round the place, where I stood myself, that 
they might the better be enabled to observe 
how I proceeded, and adopt the same method 
for themselves. The result was not 
discouraging for a first experiment, though it 
must be confessed we were now and then so 
unlucky as to burn a cake; but there was 
not a greater number of these than served to 
feed the pigeons and the fowls, which 
hovered round us to claim their share of the treat. 
My little rogues could not resist the pleasure 
of frequently tasting their cake, a little bit at 
a time, as they went on. At length the 
undertaking was complete; the cakes were put 
in a dish and served in company with a 
handsome share of milk, to each person; and with 
this addition, they furnished us an excellent 
repast: what remained we distributed among 
our animals and fowls. I observed with 
pleasure that the penguins which I had 
preserved alive, accommodated themselves perfectly 
to this kind of food, and that generally, they 
began to lose their former timid behaviour; 
I therefore indulged my inclination to 
compassionate their captive state, and ventured to 
disengage them from their comrades: this 
indulgence procured me the pleasure of seeing 
them seemingly in a state of newly acquired 
content.</p>

<p>The rest of the day was employed by the 
boys in making several turns with their 
wheel-barrows, and by myself in different 
arrangements in which the ass and our raft had a 
principal share, both being employed in 
drawing to Tent-House the remaining articles we 
had brought from the ship. When all this 
was done we retired to rest, having first made 
another meal on our cakes, and concluded all 
with pious thanks to God for the blessings 
his goodness thought fit to bestow upon us.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap21" id="chap21" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER XXI.<br/>
<small><em>The pinnace and the cracker.</em></small></h2> 

<p><span class="smcap">From</span> the time of discovering the pinnace, 
my desire of returning to the vessel grew 
every moment more and more irresistible: 
but one thing I saw was absolutely necessary, 
which was to collect all my hands and go 
provided with sufficient strength to enable 
me to get her out from the situation where 
we had found her the day before. I 
therefore thought of taking with me the three 
boys: I even wished that my wife should 
accompany us; but she had been seized with 
such an horror of the perfidious element as 
she called it, the sea, that she assured me the 
very attempt would make her ill, and thus 
occasion her to be an additional trouble rather 
than of use. I had some difficulty to prevail 
upon her to let so many as three of the 
children go: she made me promise to return the 
same evening, and on no account to pass 
another night on-board the wreck: and to 
this I was, though with regret, obliged to 
consent.</p>

<p>After breakfast then, we prepared for 
setting out, but not without some sighing and 
mournful looks from my amiable partner. 
The boys, on the contrary, were gay and on 
the alert, in the expectation of the pleasure 
that awaited them; particularly Ernest, who 
had not yet made a single voyage with us to 
the vessel. We took with us an ample 
provision of boiled potatoes and cassave; and in 
addition, arms and weapons of every kind. 
We embarked and reached Safety Bay 
without the occurrence of any remarkable event: 
here we thought it prudent to put on our 
cork jackets; we then scattered some food for 
the geese and ducks which had taken up their 
abode there, and soon after stepped gaily into 
our tub-raft, at the same time fastening the 
new boat by a rope to her stern, so that she 
could be drawn along. We put out for the 
current, though not without considerable fear 
of finding that the wreck had entirely 
disappeared. We soon, however, perceived that 
she still remained firm between the rocks. 
Having got on-board, our first care was to 
load our craft with different stores, that we 
might not return without some acquisition of 
comfort for our establishment; and then all on 
the wings of curiosity and ardour we repaired 
to that part of the vessel called the bulk-head, 
which contained the enviable prize, the 
pinnace. On further observation, it appeared to 
me that the plan we had formed was subject 
to at least two alarming and perhaps 
insurmountable difficulties: the one was the 
situation of the pinnace in the ship; and the other 
was the size and weight it would 
necessarily acquire when put together. The 
inclosure in which she lay in pieces was far 
back in the interior of the ship, and close 
upon the side which was in the water, 
immediately under the officers’ cabin. Several 
inner timbers of prodigious bulk and weight 
separated this inclosure from the breach at 
which only we had been able to get on-board, 
and in this part of the deck there was not 
sufficient space for us to work at putting the 
pinnace together, or to give her room should 
we succeed in completing our business. The 
breach also was too narrow and too irregular 
to admit of her being launched from this 
place, as we had done with our tub-raft. In 
short, the separate pieces of the pinnace were 
too heavy for the possibility of our removing 
them even with the assistance of our united 
strength. What therefore was to be done? 
and how could we meet so formidable 
a difficulty? I stood on the spot absorbed in 
deep reflection, while the boys were running 
from place to place, conveying every thing 
portable they could find, on-board the raft.</p>

<p>The cabinet which contained the pinnace 
was lighted by several small fissures in the 
timbers, which after standing in the place a 
few minutes to accustom the eye, enabled 
one to see sufficiently to distinguish objects.</p>

<p>I discovered with pleasure that all the pieces 
of which she was composed were so 
accurately arranged and numbered, that without 
too much presumption, I might flatter myself 
with the hope of being able effectually to 
collect and put them together, if I could be 
allowed the necessary time, and could procure 
a convenient place. I therefore, in spite of 
every disadvantage, decided on the 
undertaking; and we immediately set about it. We 
proceeded, it must be confessed, at first so 
slowly as to produce discouragement, if the 
desire of possessing so admirable a little 
vessel, quite new, perfectly safe, easy to conduct, 
and which might at some future day be the 
means of our deliverance, had not at every 
moment inspired us with new strength and 
ardour.</p>

<p>Evening, however, was fast approaching, 
and we had made but small progress; we 
were obliged to think of our promise to my 
wife; and though with reluctance, we left our 
occupation and re-embarked. On reaching 
Safety Bay, we had the satisfaction of finding 
there our kind steward and little Francis; 
they had been, during the day, employed in 
some necessary arrangements for our living 
at Tent-House as long as we should have 
occasion to continue the excursions to the 
vessel: this she did to shorten the length of the 
voyage, and that we might be always in sight 
of each other. This new proof of her kind 
attention affected me in a lively manner, and 
I could not sufficiently express the gratitude 
which I felt, particularly as I knew the 
dislike she had conceived to living in this spot. 
I presented her with the valuable cargo we 
brought, which I knew would give her 
pleasure, and regretted that I had no better 
recompense to offer for the voluntary sacrifice 
she had made to my accommodation. I made 
the best display I could of two casks of salted 
butter, three of flour, some small bags of 
millet-seed and of rice, and a multitude of other 
articles of utility and comfort for our 
establishment. My wife rewarded me by the 
expression of her perfect satisfaction, and the whole 
was removed to our storehouse at the rocks.</p>

<p>We passed an entire week in this arduous 
undertaking of the pinnace. I embarked 
regularly every morning with my three sons, 
and returned every evening, and never 
without some small addition to our stores. We 
were now so accustomed to this manner of 
proceeding, that my wife bade us good bye 
without concern, and we, on our parts, left 
Tent-House without anxiety; she even had 
the courage to go several times, with no 
companion but her little Francis, to Falcon’s 
Stream, to feed and take care of the poultry, 
and to bring back potatoes for our use. As 
night successively returned, we had a 
thousand interesting things to tell each other, 
and the pleasure of being together was much 
increased by these short separations: we 
even enjoyed with a better appetite the 
excellent supper our kind hostess at all times 
took care to prepare for us.</p>

<p>At length the pinnace was completed, and 
in a condition to be launched: the question 
now was, how to manage this remaining 
difficulty. She was an elegant little vessel, 
perfect in every part: she had a small neat 
deck; and her mast and sails were no less 
exact and perfect than those of a little brig. 
It was probable she would sail well, from the 
lightness of her construction, and in 
consequence, drawing but little water. We had 
pitched and towed all the seams, that nothing 
might be wanting for her complete 
appearance: we had even taken the superfluous 
pains of further embellishing by mounting 
her with two small cannon of about a pound 
weight; and, in imitation of larger vessels, 
had fastened them to the deck with chains. 
But in spite of the delight we felt in 
contemplating a commodious little vessel, formed for 
usefulness in all its parts, and the work, as it 
were, of our own industry, yet the great 
difficulty still remained: the said commodious, 
charming little vessel still stood fast, inclosed 
within four walls; nor could I conceive of a 
means of getting her out. To support the idea 
of so much time and labour bestowed for no 
end or advantage, was absolutely impossible; 
to effect a passage through the outer side of 
the vessel, by means of our united industry 
in the use of all the utensils we had secured, 
seemed to present a prospect of exertions 
beyond the reach of man, even if not 
attended with dangers the most threatening 
and alarming. We now examined if it 
might be practicable to cut away all 
intervening timbers, to which, from the nature 
of the breach, we had easier access; but 
should we even succeed in this attempt, the 
upper timbers being, in consequence of the 
inclined position of the ship, on a level with 
the water, our labour would be unavailing: 
besides, we had neither strength nor time 
for such a proceeding; from one moment 
to another, a storm might arise and engulf 
the ship, timber, pinnace, ourselves, and 
all. Despairing, then, of being able to find 
a means consistent with the sober rules of 
art, my impatient fancy inspired the thought 
of a project, which, if subjected to the 
experiment, must necessarily be attended with 
hazards and dangers of a tremendous 
nature.</p>

<p>I had found on-board, a strong iron 
mortar, such as is used in kitchens. I took a 
thick oak plank, and nailed to a certain part 
of it some large iron hooks: with a knife 
I cut a groove along the middle of the plank. 
I sent the boys to fetch some match-wood 
from the hold, and I cut a piece sufficiently 
long to continue burning at least two hours. 
I placed this train in the groove of my plank: 
I filled the mortar with gun-powder, and 
then laid the plank, thus furnished, upon 
it, having previously pitched the mortar 
all round; and, lastly, I made the whole 
fast to the spot with strong chains crossed 
by means of the hooks in every direction. 
Thus I accomplished a sort of cracker, from 
which I expected to effect a happy 
conclusion. I hung this infernally-contrived 
machine against the side of the bulk-head 
next the sea, having taken previous care to 
choose a spot in which its action could not 
affect the pinnace. When the whole was 
arranged, I set fire to the match, the end of 
which projected far enough beyond the plank 
to allow us sufficient time to escape. I now 
hurried on-board the raft, into which I had 
previously sent the boys before applying a 
light to the match; and who, though they 
had assisted in forming the cracker, had no 
suspicion of the use for which it was 
intended, and believing all the while it 
concealed some subject of amusement for their 
next trip to the vessel. I confess I had 
purposely avoided giving them the true 
explanation, from the fear of the entire failure of 
my project, or that the vessel, pinnace, and 
all that it contained, might in consequence 
be blown up in a moment. I had naturally, 
therefore, some reluctance to announce 
myself before the time, as the author of so many 
disasters.</p>

<p>On our arrival at Tent-House, I 
immediately put the raft in a certain order, that she 
might be in readiness to return speedily to 
the wreck, when the noise produced by the 
cracker should have informed me that my 
scheme had taken effect. We set busily to 
work in emptying her; and during the 
occupation, our ears were assailed with the noise 
of an explosion of such violence, that my 
wife and the boys, who were ignorant of the 
cause, were so dreadfully alarmed as 
instantly to abandon their employment. What 
can it be?—what is the matter?—what can 
have happened? cried all at once. It must 
be cannon. It is perhaps the captain and 
the ship’s company who have found their 
way hither! Or can it be some vessel in 
distress? Can we go to its relief?</p>

<p><i>Mother.</i>—The sound appeared to come 
in the direction of the wreck; perhaps she 
has blown up. Were you careful of not 
leaving any light which could communicate 
with gun-powder?—From the bottom of 
her heart she made this last suggestion, for 
she desired nothing more earnestly than 
that the vessel should be annihilated, and 
thus an end be put to our repeated visits.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—If this is the case, said I, we 
had better return immediately, and convince 
ourselves of the fact.—Who will be of the 
party?</p>

<p>I, I, I, cried the boys; and the three 
young rogues lost not a moment in jumping 
into their tubs, whither I soon followed 
them, after having whispered a few words 
to my wife, somewhat tending to explain, 
but still more to tranquillise her mind 
during the trip we had now to engage in.</p>

<p>We rowed out of the bay with more 
rapidity than on any former occasion; 
curiosity gave strength to our arms. When the 
vessel was in sight, I observed with pleasure 
that no change had taken place in the part of 
her which faced Tent-House; and that no sign 
of smoke appeared: we advanced, therefore, 
in excellent spirits; but instead of rowing, 
as usual, straight to the breach, we proceeded 
round to the side, on the inside of which we 
had placed the cracker. The horrible scene 
of devastation we had caused now broke 
upon our sight. The greater part of the 
ship’s side was shivered to pieces; 
innumerable splinters covered the surface of the 
water; the whole exhibited a scene of 
terrible destruction, in the midst of which 
presented itself our elegant pinnace, entirely 
free from injury! I could not refrain from 
the liveliest exclamations of joy, which 
excited the surprise of the boys, who had felt 
the disposition such a spectacle naturally 
inspired, of being dejected at the sight of so 
melancholy an event. They fixed their 
eyes upon me with the utmost astonishment.—Now 
then she is ours, cried I—the elegant 
little pinnace is ours! for nothing is now 
more easy than to launch her. Come, boys, 
jump upon her deck, and let us see how 
quickly we can get her down upon the 
water.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Ah! now I understand you, 
father, you have yourself blown up the side 
of the ship with that machine you contrived 
in our last visit, that we might be able to get 
out the pinnace; but how does it happen 
that so much of the ship is blown away?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—I will explain all this to you 
when I have convinced myself that the 
pinnace is not injured, and that there is no 
danger of any of the fire remaining on-board: 
let us well examine. We entered by the 
new breach, and had soon reason to be 
satisfied that the pinnace had wholly escaped 
from injury, and that the fire was entirely 
extinguished. The mortar, however, and pieces 
of the chain, had been driven forcibly into 
the opposite side of the inclosure. 
Having now every reason to be satisfied and 
tranquil, I explained to the boys the nature 
of a cracker, the manner of its operation, 
and the important service for which I was 
indebted to the old mortar.</p>

<p>I now attentively examined the breach we 
had thus effected, and next the pinnace. I 
perceived that it would be easy, with the 
help of the crow and the lever, to lower her 
into the water. In putting her together, 
I had used the precaution of placing the 
keel on rollers, that we might not 
experience the same difficulty as we had formerly 
done in launching our tub-raft. Before 
letting her go, however, I fastened the end 
of a long thick rope to her head, and the 
other end to the most solid part of the 
wreck, for fear of her being carried out too 
far. We put our whole ingenuity and 
strength to this undertaking, and soon 
enjoyed the pleasure of seeing our pretty 
pinnace descend gracefully into the sea; the 
rope keeping her sufficiently near, and 
enabling us to draw her close to the spot 
where I was loading the tub-boat, and where 
for that purpose I had lodged a pulley on a 
projecting beam, from which I was enabled 
also to advance with the completing of the 
necessary masts and sails for our new barge. 
I endeavoured to recollect minutely all the 
information I had ever possessed on the art 
of equipping a vessel; and our pinnace was 
shortly in a condition to set sail.</p>

<p>On this occasion a spirit of military affairs 
was awakened in the minds of my young 
flock, which was never after extinguished. 
We were masters of a vessel mounted with 
two cannon, and furnished amply with guns 
and pistols! This was at once to be 
invincible, and in a condition for resisting and 
destroying the largest fleet the savages could 
bring upon us! In the height of 
exultation it was even almost wished they might 
assail us! For my own part, I answered 
their young enthusiasm with pious prayers 
that we might ever escape such a calamity 
as the being compelled to use our fire arms. 
Night surprised us before we had finished 
our work, and we accordingly prepared for 
our return to Tent-House, after drawing the 
pinnace close under the vessel’s side. We 
arrived in safety, and took great care, as had 
been previously agreed on, not to mention 
our new and invaluable booty to the good 
mother, till we could surprise her with the 
sight of it in a state of entire completeness. 
In answer, therefore, to her inquiries as to 
the noise she heard, we told her that a barrel 
of gun-powder had taken fire, and had 
shivered to pieces a small part of the ship. 
We relied that no suspicion of the secret 
would occur to her mind, should she even 
have the fancy of looking at the vessel 
through the glass, as she sometimes did; for 
the pinnace lay so as to be concealed by the 
immense bulk of the ship’s body.</p>

<p>Two whole days more were spent in 
completely equipping and loading the beautiful 
little barge we had now secured. When she 
was ready for sailing, I found it impossible 
to resist the earnest importunity of the boys, 
who, as a recompense for the industry and 
discretion they had employed, claimed my 
permission to salute their mother, on their 
approach to Tent House, with two 
discharges of cannon. These accordingly were 
loaded, and the two youngest placed 
themselves, with a lighted match in hand, close 
to the touch-holes, to be in readiness. Fritz 
stood at the mast to manage the ropes and 
cables, while I took my station at the 
rudder. These matters being adjusted, we put 
off with sensations of lively joy, which was 
demonstrated by loud huzzas and suitable 
gesticulation. The wind was favourable; 
and so brisk, that we glided with the rapidity 
of a bird along the mirror of the waters: and 
while my young ones were transported with 
pleasure by the velocity of the motion, I 
could not myself refrain from shuddering at 
the thought of some possible disaster.</p>

<p>Our old friend the tub-raft had been 
deeply loaded and fastened to the pinnace, and it 
now followed as an accompanying boat to 
a superior vessel. We took down our large 
sail as soon as we found ourselves at the 
entrance of the Bay of Safety, to have the 
greater command in directing the barge; and 
soon, the smaller ones were lowered one by 
one, that we might the more securely avoid 
being thrown with violence upon the rocks 
so prevalent along the coast: thus, 
proceeding at a slower rate, we had greater facilities 
for managing the important affair of the 
discharge of the cannon. Arrived within a 
certain distance—“<i>Fire</i>”—cried commander 
Fritz. The rocks behind Tent-House 
returned the sound.—“<i>Fire</i>”—said Fritz 
again.—Ernest and Jack obeyed, and the 
echoes again majestically replied. Fritz at 
the same moment had discharged his two 
pistols, and all joined instantly in three loud 
huzzas.</p>

<p>Welcome! welcome! dear ones, was the 
answer from the anxious mother, almost 
breathless with astonishment and joy! 
Welcome, cried also little Francis with his feeble 
voice, as he stood clinging to her side, and 
not well knowing whether he was to be sad 
or merry! We now tried to push to shore 
with our oars in a particular direction, that 
we might have the protection of a projecting 
mass of rocks, and my wife and little Francis 
hastened to the spot to receive us: Ah, dear 
deceitful ones! cried she, throwing herself 
upon my neck and heartily embracing me, 
what a fright have you, and your cannon, 
and your little ship thrown me into! I saw 
it advancing rapidly towards us, and was 
unable to conceive from whence it could come, 
or what it might have on board: I stole 
with Francis behind the rocks, and when I 
heard the firing, I was near sinking to the 
ground with terror; if I had not the moment 
after heard your voices, God knows where 
we should have run to—but come, the cruel 
moment is now over, and thanks to Heaven 
I have you once again in safety! But tell me 
where you got so unhoped-for a prize as this 
neat charming little vessel? In good truth 
it would really almost tempt me to venture 
once more on a sea voyage, especially if she 
would promise to convey us back to our dear 
country! I foresee of what use she will be 
to us, and for her sake I think that I must 
try to forgive the many sins of absence you 
have committed against me.</p>

<p>Fritz now invited his mother to get 
on-board, and gave her his assistance. When 
they had all stepped upon the deck, they 
entreated for permission to salute, by again 
discharging the cannon, and at the same 
moment to confer on the pinnace the name 
of their mother—<i>The Elizabeth</i>.</p>

<p>My wife was particularly gratified by these 
our late adventures; she applauded our skill 
and perseverance: but do not, said she, 
imagine that I bestow so much commendation 
without the hope of some return in kind: on 
the contrary, it is now my turn to claim from 
you, for myself and little Francis, the same 
sort of agreeable recompense; for we have 
not, I assure you, remained idle while the rest 
were so actively employed for the common 
benefit.—No, not so; little Francis and his 
mother found means to be doing something 
also, though not at this moment prepared to 
furnish such unquestionable proofs as you, 
by your salutations of cannon, <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr>: but wait 
a little, good friends, and our proofs shall 
hereafter be apparent in some dishes of 
excellent vegetables which we shall be able to 
regale you with.—It depends, to say the truth, 
only on yourselves, dear ones, to go with me 
and see what we have done.</p>

<p>We did not hesitate to comply, and 
jumped briskly out of the pinnace for the purpose. 
Taking her little coadjutor Francis by the 
hand, she led the way, and we followed in 
the gayest mood imaginable. She 
conducted us up an ascent of one of our rocks, and 
stopping at the spot where the cascade is 
formed from Jackal’s river, she displayed to 
our astonished eyes a handsome and 
commodious kitchen garden, laid out properly in 
beds and walks, and, as she told us, every 
where sowed with the seed of useful plants.</p>

<p>This, said she, is the pretty exploit we 
have been engaged in, if you will kindly 
think so of it. In this spot the earth is so 
light, being principally composed of decayed 
leaves, that Francis and I had no difficulty in 
working it, and then dividing it into different 
compartments; one for potatoes, one for 
manioc, and other smaller shares for lettuces 
of various kinds, not forgetting to leave a 
due proportion to receive some plants of the 
sugar-cane. You, dear husband, and Fritz, 
will easily find means to conduct sufficient 
water hither from the cascade, by means of 
pipes of bamboo, to keep the whole in health 
and vigour; and we shall have a double 
source of pleasure from the general 
prosperity, for both the eyes and the palate will be 
gratified. But you have not yet seen all: there, 
on the slope of the rock, I have transplanted 
some plants of the ananas. Between these, 
I have sowed some melon seeds, which 
cannot fail to succeed, thus securely sheltered 
and in so warm a soil: here is a plot 
allotted to pease and beans, and this other for all 
sorts of cabbage. Round each bed or plot 
I have sowed seeds of maize, on account of 
its tall and bushy form, to serve as a border, 
which at the same time will protect my 
young plants from the scorching heat of the 
sun.</p>

<p>I stood transported in the midst of so 
perfect an exhibition of the kind zeal and 
persevering industry of this most amiable of 
women! I could only exclaim, that I should 
never have believed in the possibility of such 
a labour in so short a time, and particularly 
with so much privacy as to leave me wholly 
unsuspicious of the existence of such a 
project.</p>

<p><i>Mother.</i>—To confess the truth, I did not 
myself at first expect to succeed, for which 
reason I resolved to say nothing of the 
matter to any one, that I might not be put to the 
blush for my presumption. But as I found 
my little calculations answer better than I 
expected, I was encouraged, and the hope of 
surprising you so agreeably, gave me new 
strength and activity. I, on my part, 
however, had my suspicions that your daily visits 
to the wreck were connected with some 
great mystery, which at a certain time you 
would be prepared to unfold—So, mystery 
for mystery, thought I; and thus, my love, it 
has turned out. Though acting in different 
directions, one only object has been our 
mutual aim—the substantial good of our 
beloved companions of the desert!</p>

<p>After a few jocose remarks with which 
we closed this conversation, we moved 
towards Tent-House. This was one of our 
happiest days, for we were all satisfied with 
ourselves and with each other; we had 
conferred and received benefits, and I led my 
children to observe the goodness of 
Providence, who renders even labour a source of 
enjoyment, and makes our own happiness 
result from that of the objects of our 
affection, and our pride to arise from the 
commendations of which those objects may be 
deserving.</p>

<p>I had almost forgot though, said my wife, 
after a short pause, one little reproach I had 
to make you: your trips to the vessel have 
made you neglect the bundle of valuable 
fruit saplings we laid together in mould at 
Falcon’s Stream; I fear they by this time 
must be dying for want of being planted, 
though I took care to water and cover them 
with branches. Let us go, my love, and see 
about them.</p>

<p>I readily consented to so reasonable a 
proposal. I should have been no less grieved 
than my wife, to see this charming 
acquisition perish for want of care. We had 
reason on many accounts to return quickly to 
Falcon’s Stream, where different matters 
required our presence. We had now in 
possession the greater part of the cargo of the 
vessel; but almost the whole of these 
treasures were at present in the open air, and 
liable to injury from both sun and rain.</p>

<p>My wife prepared with alertness for our 
walk; and the rather from the aversion she 
had ever entertained, on account of the 
intense heat, for Tent-House. We hastened 
to unload the boat, and to place the cargo 
safely under shelter along with our other 
stores.</p>

<p>The pinnace was anchored on the shore, 
and fastened with a rope, by her head, to a 
stake. When all our stores were thus 
disposed of, we began our journey to Falcon’s 
Stream, but not empty-handed; we took 
with us every thing that seemed to be 
absolutely wanted for comfort; and when brought 
together, it was really so much, that both 
ourselves and our beasts of burthen had no 
easy task to perform.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap22" id="chap22" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER XXII.<br/>
<small><em>Gymnastic exercises;—various 
discoveries; singular animals, <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr></em></small></h2> 

<p><span class="smcap">Neither</span> our voyages to the wreck, nor 
the laboriousness of our occupations at Tent 
House had made us forget the regular 
observance of our duties on the sabbath-day, 
which now again occurred the day after our 
return to Falcon’s Stream; and we 
accordingly distinguished it by consecrating the 
forenoon to reading the church prayers, 
some chapters in the Bible, singing psalms, 
and lastly, the recital of a new parable I had 
invented, and which I had named the 
<i>Arabian Travellers</i>. I reminded my children in 
it, by the help of imagery and fictitious 
names, of all the aid and all the benefits 
bestowed upon us by an all-beneficent 
Providence, from the moment of our being cast 
upon our present abode;—that it was his 
compassion for our station which had 
endued us with sagacity and perseverance in 
the discovery of so many things necessary 
for our existence; and one treasure, valuable 
above all the rest—a talisman, bestowed by 
the good genius who watched over poor 
defenceless wanderers. This talisman was 
such as to inspire them on every occasion 
with the knowledge of what was best for 
their happiness, and that by listening to these 
inspirations, they might be sure of always 
keeping in the right path, and finding every 
want supplied. I need not explain that by 
the good genius I alluded to the ever-watchful 
care of the exemplary wife and mother; 
and by the talisman, the sacred volume she 
had so miraculously preserved and concealed 
in her enchanted bag. I was well 
understood by my hearers; and as I finished my 
discourse, the children all ran spontaneously 
at once to embrace their mother, addressing 
her by the term <i>Good Genius</i>, and thanking 
her for having been the means of securing 
the Bible, to which we might all resort for 
consolation and instruction.</p>

<p>After dinner I again addressed my family 
with a short moral discourse, and then 
allowed them to use whatever kind of 
recreation they pleased; one feature of my system 
being, not to tire them with the subjects I 
wished them to feel an attachment for. I 
recommended to them, for the sake of 
uniting usefulness with their amusement, to 
resume the exercise we began upon the first 
Sunday of our abode in these regions, the 
shooting of arrows; for I had an extreme 
solicitude about their preserving and increasing 
their bodily strength and agility, which in a 
situation like ours, might prove of such 
critical importance. Nothing tends more to 
the extinction of personal courage in a 
human being, than the consciousness of wanting 
that strength of limb, or that address, 
which may be necessary to aid us in 
defending ourselves, or in escaping from dangers. 
On this occasion, I added the exercises of 
running, jumping, getting up trees, both by 
means of climbing by the trunk, or by a 
suspended rope, as sailors are obliged to do 
to get to the mast-head. We began at 
first by making knots in the rope at a foot 
distance from each other; then we reduced 
the number of knots, and before we left off, 
we contrived to succeed without any. I 
next taught them an exercise of a different 
nature, with which they were unacquainted, 
and which was to be effected by means of 
two balls made of lead, fastened one to each 
end of a string about a fathom in length. 
While I was preparing this machinery, all 
eyes were fixed upon me.—What can it be 
intended for? cried one: How can we use 
it? asked another: Will it soon be ready? 
continued a third.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Have a little patience, boys, if it 
be not quite impossible for you to practise 
this precious virtue; for though the thing I 
am endeavouring to make for you may turn 
out extremely useful, yet this said virtue of 
patience is much more likely to be a constant, 
steady, and efficient friend.—But now for the 
object of your curiosity. It is nothing less than 
an imitation of the arms used by a valiant 
nation remarkable for their skill in the chase, 
and whom you all must have heard of: I 
mean the Patagonians, inhabitants of the 
most southern point of America; but 
instead of balls, which they are not able to 
procure, they tie two heavy stones, one at 
each end of a cord, but considerably longer 
than the one I am working with: every 
Patagonian is armed with this simple 
instrument, which they use with singular 
dexterity. If they desire to kill or wound an 
enemy or an animal, they fling one of the 
ends of this cord at him, and begin instantly 
to draw it back by the other, which they 
keep carefully in their hand, to be ready for 
another throw if necessary: but if they wish 
to take an animal alive, and without hurting 
it, they possess the singular art of throwing 
it in such a way as to make it run several 
times round the neck of the prey, 
occasioning a perplexing tightness; they then throw 
the second stone, and with so certain an aim, 
that they scarcely ever miss their object: 
the operation of the second is, the so 
twisting itself about the animal as to impede his 
progress, even though he were at a full gallop. 
The stones continue turning, and 
carrying with them the cord: the poor animal is 
at length so entangled, that he can neither 
advance nor retire, and thus falls a prey to 
the enemy.</p>

<p>This description of the field sports of the 
Patagonians was heard with much interest by 
the boys, who now all entreated I would that 
instant try the effect of my own instrument 
upon a small trunk of a tree which we saw 
at a certain distance. My throws entirely 
succeeded; and the string with the balls at 
the ends so completely surrounded the tree 
that the skill of the Patagonian huntsmen 
required no further illustration. Each of the 
boys must then needs have a similar 
instrument; and in a short time Fritz became quite 
expert in the art, as indeed he was in every 
kind of exercise that required strength or 
address: he was not only the most alert of 
my children, but being the eldest, his muscles 
were more formed, and his intelligence was 
more developed, than could yet be expected 
in the other three.</p>

<p>The next morning, as I was dressing, I 
remarked from my window in the tree that 
the sea was violently agitated, and the waves 
swelled with the wind. I rejoiced to find 
myself in safety in my home, and that the 
day had not been destined for out-of-door 
occupation. Though such a wind was in 
reality quite harmless for skilful sailors, for us 
it might be truly dangerous, from our 
ignorance in these matters. I observed then to 
my wife that I should not leave her the whole 
day, and should therefore hold myself ready 
to execute any little concerns she found 
wanting in our domestic arrangement. We now 
fell to a more minute examination than I had 
hitherto had time for, of all our various 
possessions at Falcon’s Stream. She showed me 
many things she had herself found means to 
add to them during my repeated absences 
from home: among these was a large barrel 
filled with small birds half-roasted and stowed 
away in butter to preserve them fresh: this 
she called her <i>game</i>, which she had found 
means to ensnare with birdlime in the branches 
of the neighbouring bushes. Next she 
showed me a pair of young pigeons which 
had been lately hatched, and were already 
beginning to try their wings, while their 
mother was again sitting on her eggs. From 
these we passed to the fruit-trees we had laid 
in earth to be planted, and which were in 
real need of our assistance, being almost in a 
decaying state. I immediately set myself to 
prevent so important an injury. I had 
promised the boys the evening before, to go all 
together to the wood of gourds, for the 
purpose of providing ourselves with vessels of 
different sizes to keep our provisions in: they 
were enchanted with the idea, but I bargained 
that they must first assist me to plant all the 
young trees; which was no sooner said than 
executed, excited as we were by our eager 
desire for the promised excursion.</p>

<p>When we had finished, a little 
disappointment however occurred; the evening, I 
thought, seemed too far advanced for so long 
a walk, especially as my wife and little Francis 
were to be of the party. By the time that 
all were ready, it was too late to think of 
setting out, and we accordingly postponed 
the expected pleasure till the following 
day, when we made the necessary 
preparations for leaving Falcon’s Stream very early 
in the morning. By sun-rise all were on 
foot; for nothing can exceed the alertness of 
young persons who act in expectation of a 
pleasurable change of scene. The ass, 
harnessed to the sledge, played on this occasion 
the principal character; his office was to be 
the drawing home the empty gourds for the 
service of our kitchen and the table, and in 
addition, little Francis, if he should be tired: 
in the journey out, he carried our dinner, a 
bottle of the Canary wine, and some powder 
and shot. Turk, according to custom, led the 
way as our advanced guard; next followed 
the three eldest boys, equipped for sporting; 
after them, their amiable mother, leading the 
little one; and Ponto brought up the rear with 
the monkey on his back, to which the boys 
had given the name of Knips. On this 
occasion I took with me a double-barreled gun, 
loaded on one side with shot for game, and 
on the other with ball, in case of meeting 
with an enemy.</p>

<p>In this manner we set out, full of good 
humour and high spirits, from Falcon’s 
Stream. Turning round Flamingo Marsh, 
we soon reached the pleasant spot which 
before had so delighted us. My wife, who 
now beheld for the first time its various 
beauties, was never tired of praising and admiring 
it. Fritz, who longed to be engaged in some 
sporting adventure, took a direction a little 
further from the sea-shore; and sending Turk 
into the tall grass, he followed himself, and 
both disappeared. Soon, however, we heard 
Turk barking loud, a large bird sprang up, 
and almost at the same moment a shot from 
Fritz brought it down: but the bird though 
wounded was not killed; it raised itself and 
got off with incredible swiftness, not by 
flying, but by running. Turk pursued with 
the eagerness of an animal enraged; Fritz, 
bawling out like a mad creature, followed; 
and Ponto, seeing what was going on, threw 
the monkey off his back, and fell speedily 
into the same track. It was Ponto that seized 
the bird, and held it fast till Fritz came up. 
But now a different sort of scene succeeded 
from that which took place at the capture 
of the flamingo. The legs of that bird are 
long and weak, and it was able to make but 
a poor resistance. The present captive was 
large in size, and proportionately strong; it 
struck the dogs, or whoever came near, with 
its legs, with so much force, that Fritz, who 
had received a blow or two, retired from the 
field of battle, and dared not again approach 
this feathered antagonist. Turk, who had 
gallantly assailed the bird, was also 
discouraged by some severities applied to his head 
by the sturdy combatant, and yielded the 
contest. The brave Ponto alone withstood 
the animal’s attacks; he seized one of its 
wings, and did not let it go till I reached the 
spot, which I was long in doing on account 
of the height of the grass and the great weight 
of my gun; but when I was near enough to 
distinguish the bird as it lay on the ground, 
I was overjoyed to see that it was a female 
bustard of the largest size<sup><a id="note2text"/><a href="#note2" class="pginternal">2</a></sup>. I had long 
wished to possess and to tame a bird of this 
species for our poultry-yard, though I foresaw 
that it would be somewhat difficult.</p>

<p>To effect the complete capture of the bird 
without injuring it, I took out my 
pocket-handkerchief, and seizing a favourable 
moment, I threw it over the head of the bustard; 
it could not disengage itself, and its efforts 
only served to entangle it the more. As in 
this situation it could not see me, I got 
sufficiently near to pass a string with a running 
knot over its legs, which, for the present, I 
drew tight, to prevent further mischief from 
such powerful weapons. I gently released its 
wing, which was still in the possession of 
Ponto, and tied that and its fellow close to 
the bird’s body. In short, the bustard was at 
length vanquished, though not till each and 
all of us had felt the powerful blows it was 
capable of inflicting.—But it was our own, 
and that in a condition to promise its 
preservation when we should once have conveyed 
it to Falcon’s Stream, and could administer 
abundance of care and kindness to 
compensate for the rough treatment it had 
experienced at our hands.</p>

<p>Without further delay we removed the 
prisoner to the spot on the shore where some 
of our companions had been waiting our 
return. On seeing us, Ernest and Jack ran 
briskly forward, bawling out, Oh what a 
handsome bird! And what a size! What 
beautiful feathers!—I will lay a wager that it 
is a female bustard, said Ernest, the instant 
he had cast his eyes upon it. And you 
would win, my boy, answered I; it is a 
female bustard; its flesh is excellent, having 
somewhat of the flavour of the turkey, to 
which it also in some other respects has a 
resemblance. The male spreads its tail in 
the form of a wheel, as is said, to please its 
female. Let us endeavour to tame and 
preserve it by all means.</p>

<p><i>Mother.</i>—If I had the choice, I would give 
it back its liberty: most likely it has young 
ones which stand in need of its assistance.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—For this once, my dear, the 
kindness of your heart misleads you; the poor 
bird, being wounded, would perish if set at 
liberty, for want of care. If, when I have 
examined its wound, I find it too serious to 
admit of cure, I shall kill it, and thus secure 
an excellent dish. But if the wound is slight, 
we shall have gained for our poultry yard a 
bird of rare value on account of its size, and 
which will, it may be hoped, attract its mate, 
and thus furnish us with a brood of its species: 
should it even happen that it has at this time 
a young brood, it is not improbable that they 
will find the way to take care of themselves, 
for no doubt, like chickens, they were able to 
run as soon as they came out of the egg.</p>

<p>While conversing on this subject I had 
been fixing the bustard on the sledge, taking 
care to place it in such a posture as to be the 
least painful, and to avoid exciting it to 
struggle against its fetters. We then pursued our 
way towards the wood where Fritz and I had 
seen such troops of monkeys, who in their 
spite thought to beat us from the field by 
assailing us with showers of cocoa-nuts. Fritz 
now again repeated the adventure with much 
humour to his mother. During this recital, 
Ernest was employed in going a little from 
us in every direction, in admiration of the 
height and beauty of the trees: he stopped 
in ecstasy at the sight of one in particular 
which stood alone, gazing with rapturous 
wonder at the prodigious distance from the 
root to the nearest bunches of cocoa-nuts, 
which he saw hanging in clusters under their 
crown of leaves, and which excited an eager 
desire to possess some of them. I glided 
behind him without his perceiving me, and was 
highly amused with the expression of his 
features: at length he drew a deep sigh and 
uttered these words:—Heavens! What a 
height!</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Yes, my Ernest, they are indeed 
at a most unaccommodating height, and not 
a monkey in the way to throw them down to 
you! Even were I to set Knips at liberty, 
besides that he is not in the habit of giving 
away what he might keep for himself, he 
would perhaps take it into his head to stay 
in the tree when once there, so fond is every 
creature that lives of liberty! It is really 
a pity, and I am sure you are of my opinion, 
that those fine cocoa-nuts cannot find a way 
to drop down into your mouth.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—No indeed, father, this is not the 
case; I have no great mind to them, I assure 
you; they are too hard, and would fall from 
too great a height: I should expect to have 
a tooth or two knocked out at least.</p>

<p>Scarcely had he ended his sentence, when 
a nut of the very largest size fell down. 
Ernest, alarmed, stepped aside, and looked up 
at the tree: another fell, and almost near 
enough to touch me; so that I was no less 
surprised than he, not being able to imagine 
the cause of the phenomenon. Not the 
smallest sign of a living creature appeared, and I 
was certain that cocoa-nuts never fall of 
themselves, but when in a state of over-ripeness, 
while those were absolutely hard and 
immature.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—This is somewhat like the 
adventures of Fairy-land, father, I think—No 
sooner do the personages form a wish, than it 
is granted.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—I begin indeed to think so. 
However, it may be that the magician who 
is so ready to oblige us, may lie concealed 
behind some of the leaves in the tree in the 
form of a wicked little monkey, which all the 
time may not intend so much to do us a 
favour, as to drive us from the place.</p>

<p>Ernest now ventured to take up the nuts. 
We found them even too unripe to be made 
use of, and were more than ever at a loss to 
account for their falling from the tree, round 
which we continually paced, endeavouring to 
explain the mystery. In vain, however, we 
strained our eyes; we saw nothing, but now 
and then a slight motion of the leaves: but 
neither bird nor beast appeared; and not a 
breath of wind was stirring.</p>

<p>Fritz had by this time concluded his 
narration to his mother; and observing that 
Ernest and I seemed occupied by something of 
a perplexing kind, and looked up repeatedly 
at one tree, he supposed we must have 
discovered some animal in it, and ran to have 
his share of the adventure, bringing also his 
younger brothers. We told him what had 
passed:—he shewed us that he had the eyes 
of a lynx. I shall soon, said he, see what 
it all means, raising his face to gaze at the 
tree; if one would but fall at this moment, 
I would soon tell you who threw it.—At the 
very instant two nuts fell, and so near to the 
speaker as to bruise his lip and his chin. 
Ernest could not refrain from laughing heartily. 
The magician is at least polite, said he; he 
conducts his gifts to your very mouth; and 
it is no fault of his if the dimensions of yours 
are not large enough to receive it:—but look, 
look, there are two more falling close to our 
mother and Francis. How well-behaved this 
magician shows himself;—In proportion as 
the guests increase, he takes care to send one 
for each. Let us quickly open one of them 
and refresh ourselves with the liquor it 
contains, in drinking to the health of our 
unknown friend. We did so; and each 
obtained a small quantity of the milk, in the 
fragments of the shell; and all called out together 
as they drank it, looking up at the tree, Long 
life and thanks to the good magician!—Ah, 
ah, I see him; there he is, exclaimed Jack. 
Oh, heavens! what a hideous creature! what 
an ugly shape he has! he is as large as my 
hat, and has two monstrous pincer claws.</p>

<p>Where is he then? said I, for I do not see 
him.—There, that is he, father, crawling 
slowly down the tree; do you see him now?—It 
was a land crab, an animal that, to say 
the truth, deserved Jack’s description of him. 
The land crab resembles the sea crab, but is 
ten times more hideous: some kinds of them 
are excellent food, and are the principal 
subsistence of the natives where they are found. 
The one we now met with was of the kind 
called cocoa crab, on account of its fondness 
for that fruit. It crawls with great difficulty 
and slowly, up the trunk of the tree; when it 
has reached the clumps of leaves, it conceals 
itself in them, and falls to pinching off the 
bunches of cocoa-nuts at the stalks; he 
separates and then throws them down one by one, 
which often bruises them considerably. The 
crab then descends, and finds below a 
plentiful regale. It is said by some that their 
claws are strong enough to break the shell 
of the nut; but for myself, I doubt this, 
having always believed rather that they suck 
the milk by means of the small hole found 
in the fruit near the stalk. The land crab is 
not dangerous unless you are within reach of 
its claws, or, which is rarely the case, when 
they are found together in great numbers. 
Little Francis on seeing the animal was 
terribly frightened, and hid himself behind his 
mother; even Ernest drew back, and looked 
for a place of refuge: Jack, with a menacing 
air, raised the end of his gun; and we all cast 
some looks of curiosity as the creature slowly 
descended the tree. The moment he was on 
the ground, the intrepid Jack aimed a blow 
at him with his gun, which missed him. The 
crab, finding himself attacked, turned round 
and advanced with his claws stretched open 
towards his enemy. My little ruffian 
defended himself valiantly; he did not retreat a 
single step, but his attempts to strike, entirely 
failed, for the crab was perfect in the art of 
evading every blow. I however determined 
not to interfere: I saw that there could be no 
danger to the boy, and that the scene would 
conclude by his subduing the animal, if he 
conducted the affair with prudence and 
address. I must observe that nothing could be 
more amusing than this exhibition of a fight 
between a little boy and a crab.</p>

<p>After some time, being tired out with so 
many fruitless attempts, and perhaps 
recollecting that the pinches he might get from 
the animal’s claws would not be very 
agreeable, and finding himself likely to be brought 
to close quarters with him, suddenly gave him 
the slip and ran off. The other boys now 
burst into peals of laughter, bawling out: So 
the magician has conquered you! he has 
made you run away! poor Jack! but why 
did you engage with a magician, Jack? On 
this, the lad piqued by their jeers, stopped 
short, threw his gun and his game-bag on the 
ground, stripped off his coat, spread it before 
him, and made a stand at his adversary, who 
was making up to him with his claws stretched 
out in a menacing sort of motion. Jack, 
without a moment’s hesitation, threw his coat 
upon the creature, and wrapped him round 
in it; then tapping on the outside upon his 
shell: Wicked magician, cried he, I have you 
at last! I will teach you to brandish your 
horns another time.</p>

<p>I laughed so heartily at this scene, that I 
had not the power to give him any 
assistance. I saw by the motion under the coat 
that the crab was still alert and angry. I 
therefore took my hatchet and applied two 
or three powerful blows with it on the coat, 
which I took for granted would finish the 
affair at once. I lifted up the coat; and, as I 
expected, the terrible animal was dead, but 
still preserved a menacing posture.</p>

<p>What an ugly monster! cried Jack, as he 
stood over him: but far from being terrified 
by his ugliness, it only served to quicken my 
ardour:—one must always be glad to deliver 
the earth of such a monster.</p>

<p>You would have something to do, my 
young Hercules, said I, tapping him on the 
shoulder; no animal is so common as the 
crab on the shores of the sea: they are of 
numerous kinds, and may be seen by 
millions, all equally ugly. This, if I mistake 
not, is distinguished by the name of <i>the poet’s 
crab</i>. What say you, Jack, to a thought just 
come into my head, of creating an order of 
knighthood for you, in which you shall be 
dubbed—<i>Sir Crab</i>? This is the second time 
that you have engaged in combat with these 
pincer-clawed animals. We will say nothing of 
the first, in which you got a bite by the leg; 
but this time you have evinced considerable 
courage and presence of mind. The thought 
of throwing your coat over the creature was 
well imagined; I doubt if you would have 
subdued him by any other means. It must 
be an animal of prodigious strength for its 
size, to be able to open a cocoa-nut, so that 
it was no inconsiderable enemy you were 
engaged with: but human prudence and 
reason give man the advantage over even the 
most formidable of the brute creation.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—May we eat crabs, father?—they 
are so very ugly!</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Use makes all things easy. Many 
ugly things find their way to the most 
delicately served tables. For our crab, it is the 
favourite food of the negro slaves of the 
Antilles, and frequently of their masters also. I 
should think its flesh must be hard and 
indigestible; but we will make trial of it for 
dinner.</p>

<p>I put the famous animal along with the 
cocoa nuts it had been the means of 
procuring us, together on the sledge, and we 
resumed our march. As we advanced, the 
wood became thicker and more difficult to 
pass; I was frequently obliged to use the 
hatchet to make a free passage for the ass. 
The heat also increased, and we were all 
complaining of thirst, when Ernest, whose 
discoveries were generally of a kind to be 
of use, made one at this moment of a most 
agreeable nature. He has already been 
described as a great lover of natural history, 
and now he was continually gathering, as he 
proceeded, such plants as he met with, and 
examining them with care, with the view of 
adding to his stock of knowledge. He found 
a kind of hollow stalk of a tolerable height, 
which grew at the foot of the trees, and 
frequently entangled our feet in walking. He 
cut some of the plants with his knife, and 
was much surprised in about a minute to 
see a drop of pure fresh water issue from 
them at the place where the knife had 
been applied: he showed it to us, put it to 
his lips, and found it perfectly agreeable, and 
felt much regret that there was no more. I 
then fell to examining the phenomenon 
myself, and soon perceived that the want of air 
prevented a more considerable issue of water. 
I made some more incisions, and presently 
water flowed out as if from a small conduit. 
Ernest, and after him the other boys, 
refreshed themselves and quenched their thirst at 
this new fountain, in the completest manner. 
For my own part, touched with deep 
gratitude for the goodness of God towards me 
and my beloved family, I raised my eyes to 
heaven: See, children, said I, what a blessing 
is sent us by Providence in these beneficial 
plants, the name of which I am much 
concerned to be unacquainted with. What 
would become of poor travellers in this 
burning climate, in crossing such immense 
forests far from the relief of water-springs! 
they must inevitably perish with heat and 
thirst, if the Almighty did not extend his 
goodness to the providing these necessary 
benefits.</p>

<p>I tried the experiment of dividing the plants 
longways, and they soon gave out water enough 
to supply even the ass, the monkey, and the 
wounded bustard. We were still compelled 
to fight our way through thick bushes, till at 
length we arrived at the wood of gourds, 
which was the object of our excursion, and we 
were not long in finding the spot where Fritz 
and I had once before enjoyed so agreeable 
a repose. Our companions had not soon done 
admiring and wondering at the magnificence 
of the trees they now beheld, and the 
prodigious size of the fruit which grew in so 
singular a manner upon the trunk. Fritz, who was 
already acquainted with particulars respecting 
them, now performed the office of lecturer 
to the rest, as I before had done to him. 
I was glad to observe that he had not forgot 
any part of the detail he received from me 
during our first visit; and while he was 
talking, I strolled about the wood, choosing among 
the numerous sizes of the gourds, such as 
were particularly suited for our necessities, and 
marking the places in my mind’s eye. I 
sought also to discover whether the 
malicious horde of monkeys were not still in the 
same neighbourhood, for I a little 
apprehended being molested by them during our 
occupation. I, however, to my great 
satisfaction, discovered no trace of them, and I 
returned to my companions.</p>

<p>I found Jack and Ernest actively employed 
in collecting dried branches and flints, while 
their mother was occupied in attending to the 
poor bustard, which however she saw reason 
to believe was not materially injured. She 
remarked to me that it was cruel to keep her 
any longer blinded and her legs tied together 
on the sledge. To please her, I took off the 
covering and loosened the string on the legs, 
but still left it so as to be a guard against its 
running away or inflicting blows on those 
who might approach. I contented myself 
with tying her by a long string to the trunk 
of a tree, that she might relieve herself by 
walking about. She had by no means the 
savageness of manners I should have 
expected, excepting when the dogs went near her. 
She did not appear to have any dread of man; 
which confirmed my previous belief, that the 
island in which we existed, had absolutely no 
human inhabitants but ourselves.</p>

<p>The boys now amused themselves with 
making a large fire, which they joyously 
surrounded. I took the liberty to laugh at 
them, and asked if they had become 
salamanders, or inhabitants of the planet Mercury, 
who, it is said, make fires to refresh themselves 
from the burning heat of the sun; the heat 
of our island could scarcely be less ardent, 
and this irony was therefore fair and 
admissible.</p>

<p>The fire, father, is to enable us to cook the 
magician.—Ah, hah, that is quite another 
thing, replied I. It was then for the same 
purpose, I suppose, that I saw you picking 
up some large shells: you mean no doubt to 
use them in the cooking, instead of the rind 
of the gourds which would not bear 
sufficient heat.</p>

<p>They all agreed to my conclusion. Begin 
then, continued I, by making the dish you 
will want for dressing your crab, before you 
make a large fire and get roasted yourself 
by its side.</p>

<p>I require also, said my wife, that some 
vessels to contain milk, and a large flat spoon 
to cut out my butter by pieces, and next 
some pretty plates for serving it at table, 
should be completed, gentlemen, among you 
all.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—You are perfectly reasonable in 
your demand, dear wife, said I; and for me 
there must be manufactured some nests for 
the pigeons, some baskets for eggs, and some 
hives for bees.</p>

<p><i>All.</i>—Oh yes, these things must all be 
made, we will set earnestly to work.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—But first, father, let me make a 
dish for my crab; the excessive heat would 
certainly make him unfit to be eaten by the 
evening, and I should be sorry to be obliged 
to throw away what it cost me so much 
trouble to obtain: I should soon have finished, if 
you will tell me how to divide one of the 
rinds with a string.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Well, well, it is but fair to allow 
you to enjoy the fruit of your victory. As 
to the cutting with a string, it was good for 
something when we had no saw. I will 
however show you, for fear of the worst, how 
to do it, though I took care to bring here the 
different instruments I thought we might 
want. Gather then a sufficient quantity of 
the gourds, of different sizes, and you shall 
see how soon we will cut them.</p>

<p>They all began to gather or collect, and 
we were soon in possession of a sufficient 
number of this valuable commodity. We found 
a certain quantity already dry upon the tree, 
and these we considered fit for immediate 
use: many also were so bruised or broken 
in falling, and others so immature, that we 
threw them aside as useless. We now began 
our work: some had to cut; others to saw, 
scoop out, and model into agreeable forms. 
It was a real pleasure to witness the activity 
exhibited in this manufacture of porcelain: 
each tried what specimens of imagination he 
could present for the applause of his 
companions. For my own part, I made a pretty 
basket, large enough to carry eggs, with one 
of the gourds, leaving an arch at the top to 
serve as a cover. I likewise accomplished a 
certain number of vessels, also with covers, fit 
to hold our milk, and then some spoons to 
skim the cream. My next attempt was to 
execute some bottles large enough to contain 
a supply of fresh water, and these occasioned 
me more trouble than all the rest. It was 
necessary to empty the gourd through the 
small opening of the size of one’s finger which 
I had cut in it; I was obliged after loosening 
the contents by means of a stick, to get them 
out by the friction of shot and water well 
shaken on the inside. Lastly, to please my wife 
I undertook the labour of a set of plates for 
her use. Fritz and Jack engaged to make 
the hives for the bees, and nests for the 
pigeons and hens. For this last object, they 
took the largest gourds, and cut a hole in front 
proportioned to the size of the animal for 
whose use it was intended: they had when 
finished so very pretty an appearance, that 
little Francis was ready to cry that he was 
not quite small enough to get into and live 
in one of them. The pigeons’ nests were 
intended to be tied to the branches of our tree; 
those for the hens, the geese, and the ducks, 
were to be placed between its roots or on the 
sea-shore, and to represent a sort of hen-coop. 
When the most essential of the utensils were 
finished, I allowed them, as they had 
requested, to add a dish to dress their crab in. This 
also was soon accomplished; but when the 
cooking was completed, they discovered that 
they had no water. We found nothing on 
this spot like our providential <i>fountain</i> plants, 
as we had named them. The boys 
entreated me to go about with them in different 
directions, and try to find a small supply of 
this precious article, not daring by themselves 
to venture further into the wood.</p>

<p>I was therefore of necessity compelled to 
accompany them. Ernest with great eagerness 
proposed relieving me of this trouble, 
and putting himself in my place. He had 
found it impossible to succeed in assisting to 
make the utensils; he broke more than half 
the pieces of gourd he took in hand, and to 
make amends for his awkwardness, he exerted 
himself in every direction to discover a 
water-spring, or to do something else that might be 
useful. It was not long before we heard 
him calling loudly to us, and saw him 
returning in great alarm. Run quick, father, 
said he, here is an immense wild boar. Oh, 
how he frightened me! I heard him grunting 
quite close to me, and then he scampered 
away to the wood, and I hear him at this 
very moment.</p>

<p>Here, here! I then called out to the boys: 
call the dogs quickly; here is fine game for 
us, if we are so lucky as to catch it. Halloo, 
here, Turk, Ponto! The dogs arrived full 
gallop. Ernest was our leader, and conducted 
us to the place where the boar had approached 
him; but he was gone, and we saw 
nothing but a plot of potatoes which had the 
appearance of having been ransacked by the 
animal. The ardour for the chase had been 
somewhat checked in Jack and Ernest, when 
they considered for a moment that they had so 
formidable a creature as a boar to encounter; 
they stopped short, and began to dig potatoes, 
and left it to Fritz and me to follow the 
traces of the dogs. We soon heard the cry 
of the latter; for they had overtaken the 
runaway, and soon after the most hideous 
growling assailed our ears from the same quarter.</p>

<p>We advanced with caution to the spot, 
holding our guns before us in readiness to fire 
together, the instant the animal should show 
itself within the proper distance. Presently 
the spectacle of the two brave creatures 
attacking him on the right and left presented 
itself; each held one of his ears between their 
teeth. But the beast was not a boar, as the 
account of Ernest had made me suppose, but 
a pig of the true common breed, which on 
our approach, appeared rather to ask for our 
assistance, than to have any inclination to 
attack us. Contrary to our expectation, 
Fritz and myself also suddenly lost the relish 
for sporting against this animal; for we 
immediately recognised in the supposed boar, our 
own sow which had run away and had so long 
been lost. After the first surprise we could 
not resist a hearty laugh; and then we 
hastened to disincumber our old friend of the 
teeth of her two adversaries. Her frightful 
squalling resounded through the wood and 
drew the attention of our companions, who 
now ran to the place, when a warfare of 
banter and accusation went round among the 
parties:—Fritz knew certain persons whose 
passion for the chase ended in digging 
potatoes! Jack and Ernest returned the sally 
by complimenting Fritz on the fine martial 
appearance of the wild boar they had been 
so fortunate as to make captive!—Why, Fritz, 
we knew in a moment, by the grunting, that 
it was only our old sow.—You however 
believed it to be a wild boar, Mr. Ernest, 
returned Fritz, and even after you had seen it.</p>

<p>I know not what Ernest would have 
answered; for the attention of all was attracted to 
a kind of small potatoe which we observed 
lying thick on the grass around us, and which 
had fallen from some trees which appeared 
loaded with the same production: our sow 
devoured them greedily, thus consoling 
herself for the fright she had been put into, and 
the pain the dogs had occasioned her.</p>

<p>The fruit was of different colours, and 
extremely pleasing to the eye. Fritz expressed 
his apprehension that it was the pernicious 
kind of apple called the Mancenilla, against 
which I had so strenuously cautioned them; 
but the sow ate them with so much 
eagerness, and the tree which bore them being 
neither so high, and having neither the form 
nor foliage ascribed by naturalists to the 
Mancenilla, made me doubt of the truth of 
his idea. I forbore from immediately pronouncing its condemnation; but I desired my 
sons to put some of the fruit in their pockets, 
to make an experiment with them upon the 
monkey. I was shortly after nearly satisfied 
of their harmless quality, from seeing that 
the two dogs also fell upon them with 
eagerness; but I persisted in forbidding the boys 
to taste them till I had further examined 
into their nature and properties; and they all 
of course obeyed me. We now again, from 
extreme thirst, began to recollect our want 
of water, and determined to seek for some 
in every direction. Jack sprang off and 
sought among the rocks, hoping, and with 
reason, that he should discover some 
little stream: but scarcely had he left the 
wood, than he bawled to us that he had found 
a crocodile.....</p>

<p>A crocodile! cried I with a hearty laugh, 
you have a fine imagination, my boy! who 
ever saw a crocodile on such scorching rocks 
as these, and with not a drop of water near? 
Now, Jack, you are surely dreaming.....</p>

<p>Not so much of a dream as you may 
think, father, answered Jack, trying to 
speak in a low voice;—fortunately he is 
asleep;—he lies here on a stone at his full 
length;—he is exactly like our mother.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—This is excellent, upon my word! 
So then your mother is like a crocodile?—This 
is really an indiscreet sort of a joke.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—I meant, father, that the 
crocodile is about as long as the height of our 
mother; I had not, I assure you, the least 
idea of a joke; for it is certainly a crocodile, 
though perhaps only a young one.....
Do, father, step here and look at it, it does 
not stir in the least.</p>

<p>I knew not what to think: we stole softly 
to the place where the animal lay; but 
instead of a crocodile I saw before me an 
individual of a large sort of lizard, named by 
naturalists <i>Leguana</i> or <i>Yguana</i><sup><a id="note3text"/><a href="#note3" class="pginternal">3</a></sup>, and the 
flesh of which is considered in the West 
Indies as the greatest delicacy. I explained 
this to my sons, and tranquillised them as 
to the danger of approaching this animal, 
formed by nature of a mild character, and 
excellent as food. All were then 
immediately seized with the hope of seizing the 
lizard and presenting so rare a prize to their 
mother. Fritz in a moment had his gun 
ready, and was taking his aim, but that I 
was in time to lay hold of his arm and 
prevent him: You are always too quick, said I, 
in your determinations; your piece might 
have missed, or you might have wounded 
him only slightly; for this sort of animal is 
protected by a coat of scales as you see, 
and it is extremely difficult to destroy him. 
I think too that he is known to be extremely 
dangerous if approached when he is angry. 
Let us try another sort of experiment; as he 
is asleep, we need not be in a hurry: only a 
little contrivance is necessary to have him 
safe in our power alive, and the process will 
afford us all an amusing spectacle.</p>

<p>I cut a stout stick from a bush, to the 
extremity of which I tied a string with a 
running knot. I guarded my other hand simply 
with a little switch, and thus with cautious 
steps approached the sleeping animal. When 
I was very near to him, I began to whistle a 
lively air, taking care to make the sounds low 
at first, and to increase in loudness till the 
lizard was awaked<sup><a id="note4text"/><a href="#note4" class="pginternal">4</a></sup>. The creature 
appeared entranced with pleasure as the sounds 
fell upon his ear; he raised his head to 
receive them still more distinctly, and looked 
round on all sides to discover from whence 
they came. I now advanced by a step at a 
time, without a moment’s interval in the 
music, which fixed him like a statue to the 
place. At length I was near enough to reach 
him with my switch, with which I tickled 
him gently, still continuing to whistle, one 
after the other, the different airs I could 
recollect. The lizard was bewildered by 
the charms of the music; the attitudes he 
threw himself into were expressive of a 
delirious voluptuousness; he stretched himself 
at full length, made undulating motions 
with his long tail, threw his head about, 
raised it up, and by this sort of action, 
disclosed the formidable range of his 
sharp-pointed teeth, which were capable of tearing 
us to pieces if we had excited his hostility. 
I dexterously seized the moment of his 
raising his head, to throw my noose over 
him. When this was accomplished, the 
boys drew near also, and wanted instantly to 
draw it tight and strangle him at once; but 
this I positively forbad, being unwilling to 
cause the poor animal so unmerited a 
suffering. I had used the noose only to make 
sure of him in case it should happen that a 
milder mode of killing him, which I intended 
to try, failed of success, in which case I 
should have looked to the noose for 
protection; but this was rendered unnecessary. 
Continuing to whistle my most affecting 
melodies, I seized a favourable moment to 
plunge my switch into one of his nostrils; 
the blood flowed in abundance, and soon 
deprived him of life, without his exhibiting 
the least appearance of being in pain; on the 
contrary, to the last moment he seemed to 
be still listening to the music.</p>

<p>As soon as he was dead I allowed the 
boys to come quite near and to tighten the 
noose, which we now found useful to draw 
him to the ground from the large stone on 
which he lay. My sons were delighted with 
the means I had used for killing him without 
pain. But little praise is due to me, I replied; 
for I have often in books of travels, read the 
description of the manner of deluding and 
destroying this animal, so well known in the 
West Indies. But now let us consider of 
the best way for transporting to Falcon’s 
Stream so large and valuable a booty. After 
a moment of reflection, I perceived that I 
had better come at once to the 
determination of carrying him across my shoulders: 
and the figure I made with so singular an 
animal on my back, with his tail dragging on 
the ground, was not the least amusing 
circumstance of the adventure. Fritz and 
Jack presented themselves as pages, 
contending which should support my train, as they 
called the tail, which, independently of the 
good-humour inspired amongst us, 
considerably eased me of the weight, and gave 
me the air of an old Chinese emperor 
habited in a superb royal mantle of many 
colours, for those of the lizard shone like 
precious stones in the eyes of the sun.</p>

<p>We were already far advanced in our 
return, when we distinguished the voice of 
my wife calling upon my name in a tone 
which indicated great uneasiness; and in 
addition, we heard loud sobs from little 
Francis. Our long absence had excited 
painful apprehensions concerning us: we had 
forgot on this occasion to give them notice 
of our approach, by firing our gun, and they 
had imagined some terrible disaster must 
have befallen us. No sooner, however, did 
our cheerful notes in speaking reach their 
ear, than their fears and lamentations were 
changed to joy, and we soon found ourselves 
assembled together, the happiest of beings, 
under a large gourd-tree, where we related 
to our dear companions every particular of 
the excursion we had made; not forgetting 
Jack’s singular fancy of finding a 
resemblance between his mother and the lizard, 
who now lay extended at her feet. We had 
so many things to inform her of, that we 
lost sight of the principal object which caused 
our separation; and till she reminded us with 
some regret at our ill success, we forgot to 
mention that we had failed of procuring any 
water. My sons had taken out some of the 
unknown apples from their pockets, and 
they lay on the ground by our side. Knips 
soon scented them, and according to custom 
he came slily up and stole several, and fell 
to chewing them with great eagerness. I 
myself threw one or two to the bustard, who 
also ate them without hesitation. Being 
now convinced that the apples were not of a 
poisonous nature, I announced to the boys, 
who had looked on with envy all the time, 
that they also might now begin to eat 
them, and I myself set the example. We 
found them excellent in quality, and I began 
to suspect that they might be the sort of 
fruit called <i>guava</i>, which is much esteemed 
in such countries. The tree which bears 
them is sometimes twenty feet in height; 
no doubt therefore, those from which we 
procured the fruit, were too young to have 
attained their full stature. The tree itself is 
of so fertile a nature, that in inhabited 
countries they are constantly obliged to be 
thinned and cut down, on account of the 
quantity of land they would occupy.</p>

<p>This regale of the apples had in some 
measure relieved our thirst; but on the other 
hand, they had increased our hunger; and 
as we had not time for preparing a portion 
of the lizard, we were obliged to content 
ourselves with the cold provisions we had 
brought with us. But we contrived to have 
an excellent dessert of potatoes, which the 
boys had had the foresight to lay under the 
cinders of the fire they had made to cook 
their crab.</p>

<p>We had scarcely finished taking this 
refreshment, before my wife earnestly entreated 
that we might immediately begin our journey 
home, to be sure of arriving before dark. 
In fact, it appeared to me, as the evening 
was so far advanced, that it would be 
prudent to return this once without the sledge, 
which was heavy laden, and the ass would 
have drawn it but slowly: I was besides, 
inclined to take a shorter road by a narrow 
path that divided a plantation of thick bushes, 
which would have been too difficult a 
passage for the ass burthened with the sledge. 
I therefore determined to leave it on the spot 
till the following day, when I could return 
and fetch it, contenting myself with loading 
the ass for the present, with the bags which 
contained our new sets of porcelain; with the 
lizard, which I feared might not keep fresh 
so long; and our little Francis, who began to 
complain of being tired. I took these 
arrangements upon myself, and left to my wife 
and Fritz, the care of confining the bustard 
in such a manner that she could walk before 
us without danger of escaping.</p>

<p>When these preparations were complete, 
our little caravan was put in motion, taking 
the direction of a straight line to Falcon’s 
Stream. On leaving the wood of gourds, 
we arrived at a spot where we found more 
of the guava trees, and could not resist the 
temptation to stay a few moments and secure 
a new supply. The course of our route lay 
next along a majestic wood of oaks, agreeably 
interspersed with fig-trees of luxuriant 
growth, and of the same species as those at 
Falcon’s Stream. The ground in this place 
was absolutely covered with acorns. My 
young travellers, ever on the watch for something 
new and gratifying to the palate, could 
not refrain from tasting them: in form they 
exactly resembled the same fruit in Europe, 
though from the difference of climate, they 
would probably not be the same in regard 
to quality and flavour. One of the boys bit 
an acorn in two; and finding it both sweet 
and mild to the taste, he told his brothers, 
who soon fell eagerly to filling their own 
pockets with them, as well as mine and those 
of their mother. I always hailed with 
satisfaction every occasion that presented, of 
increasing the number of our resources for 
support: in the one that now presented 
itself, I perceived the hope that we might not 
only be ourselves nourished but our poultry 
also: I more than ever admired the 
magnificence of the trees which at this moment 
covered us with their shade, and made us a 
present of so inestimable a value: on 
considering, I recognised that they were a kind 
of oak which remains always green, and are 
a common production of the woods in 
Florida, and that the Indians of North 
America extract from its fruit an excellent kind 
of sweet oil, which they use in cooking their 
rice. Numerous kinds of birds subsist upon 
these acorns. This we were led to remark, by 
the wild and discordant cries of several sorts 
of jays and parrots, which were skipping 
merrily among the foliage and the branches. 
The boys would instantly have fired their 
guns; and I could only prevail upon them to 
desist, by observing how late it was, and 
promising that we would return another time, 
and thus procure them an opportunity for 
their favourite amusement.</p>

<p>We arrived shortly, and sooner than we 
expected, at Falcon’s Stream; the path we 
had taken had so considerably lessened the 
distance, that we were in time to employ 
ourselves in some trifling arrangements, 
before it was completely dark. My wife had 
great pleasure in taking out her service of 
porcelain and using some of the articles that 
very evening; particularly the handsome 
egg-basket and the vessels for the milk. 
Fritz was instructed to dig a place in the 
ground to serve for a kind of cooler, the 
better to preserve the milk; and we covered 
it with boards and put heavy stones to keep 
them down. Jack took the pigeons’ nests, 
and scampered up the tree, where he nailed 
them to the branches; he next laid some 
dry moss within, and placed one of the 
female pigeons we had contrived to tame, and 
which at the time was brooding, upon it; 
he put the eggs carefully under the mother, 
who seemed to accept his services, and to 
coo in return, with gratitude.</p>

<p>Ernest was occupied in distributing and 
fixing those intended for the fowls among 
the roots of the trees: when he had finished, 
it was of importance to observe how well 
they would accustom themselves to this their 
new abode; they were already on their 
perches, with their head under their wing 
and half asleep, and took very much amiss 
the being thus disturbed; while Ernest, for 
his part, was enraged at the little inclination 
they discovered to inhabit their new abode.</p>

<p>My own employment was to clean the 
inside of the lizard and prepare a piece of it 
for our supper, my wife having expressed an 
extreme repugnance to both the lizard and 
the crab; we therefore added some potatoes 
and some acorns, and dressed them together, 
and thus suited every palate. Francis had 
the care of turning the spit, and liked his 
office all the better, for its allowing of his being 
constantly near his mother. We all drew 
near a clear brisk fire while the supper was 
in hand: a sea breeze had refreshed the air, 
and after great fatigue, a good fire seldom 
fails to occasion agreeable sensations. This 
well-spent and useful day was concluded by 
a refreshing repast, at which all but my wife 
bestowed encomiums on the palatable 
properties of the leguana. My wife could not prevail 
upon herself even to taste it; she therefore 
supped on the potatoes. The crab was found 
to have but little flavour, and was put aside 
as useless. We concluded the exertions of the 
day, by contriving a comfortable bed for the 
bustard by the side of the flamingo, and then 
hastened to stretch our weary limbs upon 
the homely couch, but rendered by fatigue 
luxurious, that waited for us in the giant tree.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap23" id="chap23" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER XXIII.<br/>
<small><em>Excursion into unknown countries.</em></small></h2>

<p><span class="smcap">It</span> is scarcely necessary to relate, that my 
first thought the next morning, was to fetch 
the sledge from the wood. I had a double 
motive for leaving it there, which I had 
refrained from explaining to my wife, to avoid 
giving her uneasiness. I had formed a wish 
to penetrate a little further into the soil, and 
ascertain whether any thing useful would 
present itself beyond the wall of rocks. I 
was, besides, desirous to be better 
acquainted with the extent, the form, and general 
productions of our island: I wished Fritz 
only, who was stronger and more 
courageous than his brothers, to accompany me; 
and accordingly left the three others, and 
Ponto, to protect my wife. We allowed 
Turk to be our travelling companion, who 
did not fail to testify his joy by jumping 
about, and barking loud. We set out very 
early in the morning, and drove the ass 
before us for the purpose of drawing home the 
sledge.</p>

<p>On reaching the wood of ever-green oaks, 
we found the sow feeding voluptuously upon 
the acorns under the trees. We wished her 
a good appetite, and begged her to admit 
us to the honour of partaking her breakfast; 
and accordingly Fritz filled the pockets of 
his waistcoat with some of them. We 
perceived with pleasure that the lecture of the 
preceding day had rendered the animal more 
tractable: she did not now seek to avoid us; 
and we might even have induced her to 
return home, if we had had time to take the 
pains. As we were quietly picking up some 
of the acorns, we observed some birds, which 
occupied the wood in every direction, 
advancing towards us. Some of them were 
clothed with a plumage of exquisite beauty; 
and for this once, I could not refuse Fritz 
the pleasure of firing upon them, that we 
might in consequence obtain a nearer view, 
and inform ourselves respecting their species. 
He brought down three. I recognised one to 
be the great blue Virginia jay, and the other 
two were parrots. One of the two was a 
superb red parrot; the other was green and 
yellow.</p>

<p>While Fritz was reloading his gun, we 
heard a singular sort of noise which came 
from a distance: at one moment it 
resembled a muffled drum, at another, the noise 
made in sharpening a saw. My first idea 
was of music played by savages, and we 
retreated quickly to hide ourselves among the 
bushes to listen. By degrees we advanced 
towards the place from whence the sound 
appeared to come; but perceiving nothing to 
alarm us, we separated some of the branches 
with our hands, and then discovered a 
handsome bird about the size of the English 
cock; and, like it too, adorned with 
elegantly-formed smooth feathers round the 
neck, and a comb upon his head. The 
animal stood erect on a decayed trunk of 
a tree, which was lying on the ground, and 
at this moment exhibited some singular 
gestures. His tail was spread in the form of 
a fan, similar to that of the turkey-cock, but 
shorter; the feathers round his neck and 
head were erect and bristling. He 
sometimes agitated them with so quick a 
motion, as to make them appear like a vapour 
which suddenly inclosed him; sometimes he 
whirled himself round and round on the 
trunk of the tree; at others he moved his 
head and eyes in such a manner as to 
express a state of distraction, making at the 
same time, the singular kind of noise with his 
voice, which had alarmed us, and which was 
preceded and followed by a sort of 
explosion. This last was caused by a motion of 
his wing striking in a quick measure on the 
trunk, which was hollow and dry, and made 
the noise resemble a muffled drum. All 
around him, there was assembled a great 
number of birds of the same species, but 
much smaller, and of a less beautiful form. 
One and all fixed their eyes upon him, and 
seemed delighted with the pantomime. I 
contemplated this extraordinary spectacle, of 
which I had formerly read an account, with 
astonishment. The number of the 
spectators of the feathered actor, increased every 
moment; and the performance increased in 
spirit also, in proportion, presenting the idea 
of a perfect intoxication or delirium of the 
creature. At this moment, Fritz, who stood 
a little behind me, put an end to the scene 
by firing off his gun. The actor fell from 
the stage, and stretching himself on the 
sand, breathed his last, and the spectators 
betook themselves suddenly to flight. I must 
confess, the interest I took in the scene was 
of so lively a nature, that I could not refrain 
from reproaching Fritz in an angry tone. 
Why, said I, must we be always applying 
the means of death and annihilation to the 
creatures that fall in our way? Is not 
nature a thousand times more exhilarating in 
her animated movements, which express life 
and enjoyment, than in the selfish scheme 
of destruction you seem so fond of? Some 
allowance should no doubt be made for the 
curiosity of youth, for necessities caused by 
our situation, and even for the taste you 
have acquired for sporting; I therefore, as 
you well know, do not object to your 
killing now and then a little game, or some 
singular or dangerous kind of animal; but 
moderation is on all occasions useful, and the 
spectacle of this bird, employed in such 
earnest endeavours to draw his females around 
him, was at least as amusing, as to see him 
stretched there at length, and lifeless, who 
but two minutes ago exhibited such rapid 
and lively motions! His pretty hens too all 
dispersed in terror, and deprived of the 
possibility of ever more admiring him or being 
his companions.</p>

<p>Fritz looked down, ashamed and sorry. I 
observed to him that the thing being done, 
there was now no remedy; that the tetrix<sup><a id="note5text"/><a href="#note5" class="pginternal">5</a></sup> 
or heath-cock was much esteemed as game; 
and that as the mischief had occurred, he 
had better take it from the ground and 
carry it to his mother.</p>

<p>He did as I desired; and in spite of my 
lecture I saw that he was rejoiced to have 
acquired such a prize. Is it not a beautiful 
creature, father? said he: but I am most 
curious to be informed what all his action was 
intended to represent.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—I imagine his gestures and his 
cries were intended to assemble his females, 
of which he has a large number, similar to 
the common cock of Europe. I cannot help 
thinking, Fritz, how cruel it was thus to 
interrupt the poor creature’s innocent amusements.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—I am now extremely sorry for it, 
father; particularly when I recollect that we 
might have caught him alive, and that it is 
so desirable to have possessed this kind of 
fowl at Falcon’s Stream.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—This is precisely what I was 
going to observe; I am not sure that it is 
now too late to effect such a plan;—when 
we see either of the hens disposed to brood, 
we will bring the monkey here to search 
about for the eggs of these animals; if we 
should be so lucky as to find a nest, which 
I think probable, we will take away the eggs, 
and put them under the brooding hen; by 
these means we shall procure some of this 
handsome race of fowls.</p>

<p>We now laid the dead cock upon the 
ass’s back, and proceeded on our journey. 
We soon arrived at the guava trees, and a 
little after at the spot where we had left the 
sledge in the wood of gourds, when we 
found our treasures in the best possible 
condition: but as the morning was not far 
advanced, we entered upon our intended 
project of penetrating beyond the wall of rocks.</p>

<p>We pursued our way in a straight line at 
the foot of these massy and solid productions 
of nature, every moment expecting to reach 
their extremity, or to find some turn, or breach, 
or passage through them, that should conduct 
us into the interior of the island, if, as I 
presumed, it was not terminated by these rocks. 
We walked on, continually looking about, 
that nothing might escape us worthy of 
notice, or to be enabled to anticipate and 
avoid such dangers as should threaten. Turk 
with his usual bravery took the lead, the ass 
followed with lazy steps shaking his long ears, 
and Fritz and I brought up the rear. We 
met from time to time with some small streams 
which afforded a most agreeable refreshment; 
we passed a wood of guava trees and fields 
of potatoes and manioc, the stalks of which 
perplexed our way; but we were 
recompensed for this inconvenience by the fine 
views which every where presented 
themselves, and which the low stature of the plants 
enabled us to see in perfection. To the right, 
on the high grounds, we saw hares and 
agoutis in considerable numbers, amusing 
themselves on the grass in the morning sun. Fritz 
mistook them for marmots, but not one of 
them made the whistling kind of sound which 
is customary with these animals when they 
see a strange object. The idea of my son 
seemed therefore to be unfounded: again he 
wished to be convinced by firing his gun; 
but fortunately, the rock on which they were 
stationed, was at too great a distance for it to 
take effect.</p>

<p>We next entered a pretty little grove, the 
trees of which were unknown to us; their 
branches were loaded with large quantities 
of berries of an extraordinary quality, being 
entirely covered with a wax which stuck to 
our fingers as we attempted to gather them<sup><a id="note6text"/><a href="#note6" class="pginternal">6</a></sup>. 
I knew of a sort of bush producing wax 
that grows in America, and named by 
botanists <i>Myrica cerifera</i>; I had no doubt that 
this was the plant, and the discovery gave 
me great pleasure. Let us stop here, said I 
to Fritz, for we cannot do better than 
collect a great quantity of these berries as a 
useful present to your mother.</p>

<p>A short time after, another kind of object 
presented itself with equal claims to our 
attention; it was the singular modes of behaviour 
of a kind of bird scarcely larger than a 
chaffinch, and clothed in feathers of a common 
brown colour. These birds appeared to 
exist as a republic, there being among them 
one common nest, inhabited at pleasure by 
all their tribes. We saw one of these nests 
in a tree in a somewhat retired situation; it 
was formed with considerable skill of platted 
straws and bulrushes intermixed; it 
appeared to us to inclose great numbers of 
inhabitants, and was constructed in an irregular 
sort of form round the trunk of the tree 
where the branches sprout: it appeared to 
us to have a kind of roof formed of roots and 
bulrushes, but more carefully knit together 
than the rest of the structure. In the sides, 
which were unequally formed, we observed a 
quantity of small apertures seemingly 
intended as doors and windows to each particular 
cell of this general receptacle; from a few of 
these apertures, issued some small branches, 
which served the birds as points of rest for 
entering and returning: the external 
appearance of the whole, excited the image of an 
immensely large, open, spunge. The birds 
which inhabited it were very numerous; they 
passed in and out continually, and I estimated 
that it might contain at least a million. The 
males were somewhat larger than the females, 
and there was a trifling difference in their 
plumage: the number of the males was 
very small in proportion to the females; I 
do not know whether this had been the cause 
of their thus assembling together.</p>

<p>While we were attentively examining this 
interesting little colony, we perceived a very 
small kind of parrot, not much larger than 
the birds themselves, hovering about the 
nest<sup><a id="note7text"/><a href="#note7" class="pginternal">7</a></sup>. Their gilded green wings and the 
variety of their colours produced a beautiful 
effect; they seemed to be perpetually 
disputing with the colonists, and not 
unfrequently endeavoured to prevent their 
entrance into the building; they attacked them 
fiercely, and even endeavoured to peck at us 
if we but advanced our hand to the 
structure. Fritz, who was well trained in the 
art of climbing trees, was earnestly desirous to 
take a nearer view of such extraordinary 
beings, and to secure, if possible, a few 
individuals. He threw his whole equipage to the 
ground, and climbed till he reached the nest; 
he then tried to introduce his hand into one 
of the apertures, and to seize whatever living 
creature it should touch, in that particular 
cell; what he most desired, was to find a 
female brooding, and to carry both her and 
the eggs away. Several of the cells were 
empty, but by perseverance he found one in 
the situation he wished. But he did not 
pursue his plan without meeting with the full 
punishment of his curiosity and ungenerous 
behaviour. He received so violent a stroke 
from the beak of an invisible bird, that his 
only care was now to withdraw his hand, 
which he shook in the air to ease the pain, 
uttering all the time the most dismal 
lamentations. But though punished, he was not 
cured of his fault: no sooner had the pain 
subsided, than he ventured a second time to 
pass his hand into the nest, and succeeded in 
seizing his prey, which he laid hold of by 
the middle of the body; and in spite of the 
bird’s resistance, its cries and wailings, he 
drew it through the aperture and squeezed 
it into the pocket of his waistcoat; and 
buttoning it securely, he slided down the tree 
and reached the ground in safety. The 
signals of distress sent forth by the prisoner 
collected a multitude of birds from their cells, 
who all surrounded him, uttering the most 
hideous cries, and flying at him with their 
beaks, till he had made good his retreat. 
The birds pursued him till he was quite close 
to my side, when by making a loud noise 
and waving my pocket-handkerchief, I 
succeeded in driving them away. He now 
released the prisoner, and we discovered him 
to be a beautiful little green parrot, which 
Fritz entreated he might be allowed to 
preserve, and make a present of to his brothers, 
who would make a cage to keep him in, and 
would then tame him and teach him to speak. 
I did not oppose his request; but thinking 
we had spent too much time upon this 
singular phenomenon of the bird colony, I bade 
him prepare quickly for returning home. 
The birds were naturally the subject of our 
conversation on the road. It was the first 
time I had ever witnessed such a spectacle as 
a swarm of birds living together in a state of 
society in one nest; and I was surprised at 
it. From the circumstance of so young a 
bird being nestled within the structure, it 
appeared probable that the true right of 
property was in this species, and that the 
brown-coloured birds we at first observed, were 
intruders, endeavouring to deprive them of it. 
Thus we find, said I to Fritz, the existence 
of social dispositions in almost every class of 
the animal kingdom, which leads to the 
combining together for a common cause or 
benefit. I have not hitherto observed these 
dispositions among amphibious animals, but it 
is not unlikely that instances will at some 
time or other present themselves. A 
multitude of causes may induce animals to form 
a body or society, instead of living singly; 
among them may be supposed the deficiency 
of females or of males; the charge of the 
young; providing them with food; or as a 
means for their safety and protection. Who 
shall dare to fix limits to the instinct, or to 
the faculties of the animal creation?</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—I do not, however, recollect any 
kind of animals who live thus together in 
society, except the bees.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—What say you then, my boy, to 
wasps, drones, and different kinds of ants?</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—I did not indeed recollect the 
ants, though I have so often amused myself 
with looking at them: nothing can be more 
interesting than the ingenious little houses 
they construct; observing them attentively, 
we perceive their industry, their economy, 
their care of their young;—in a word, all their 
undertakings, conducted on a plan of society 
and numbers.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Have you also observed with 
what a provident kind of instinct they bring 
out their eggs to be warmed by the sun, and 
for this end remove them from place to place 
till the time of their maturity?</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Is it not probable, father, that 
what we take for eggs, are chrysales of ants, 
which, like many other insects, are thus shut 
up while the process of their taking wings 
is in the operation?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—You may be right. Writers on 
natural history have considered the industry 
and frugality of these insects, as a subject not 
unworthy of their close consideration<sup><a id="note8text"/><a href="#note8" class="pginternal">8</a></sup>; but 
if the common ant of our own country 
excited so much of your admiration, in what 
words will you express your astonishment 
at the almost incredible labours which are 
performed by the ants of foreign countries! 
Of these there is a kind which build nests of 
four, six, and eight feet in height, and large 
in proportion: the external walls of these 
structures are formed so thick and solid, that 
neither sun nor rain can penetrate them. 
These houses contain within, little streets, 
arched roofs, piazzas, colonnades, and 
particular apartments for the offices of 
housewifery: and the whole of this complicated mass is 
put together with so much solidity of 
workmanship, that if emptied and cleaned, it might 
serve for an oven. The ant is for the most 
part an animal of pilfering propensities, on 
the profits of which it principally lives; it is 
also remarkable for constancy in its designs, 
and remaining ever in one place: a species 
of them exists, however, in America, which is 
known by the name of the <i>cephalate</i> or 
visiting ant; they make their appearance in 
numerous troops every two or three years, 
and disperse themselves abundantly in every 
house: as soon as this visitation is 
observed, it is customary to open all the 
apartments, and every receptacle for stores; they 
enter every where, and in a short time it is 
found that they have exterminated as 
effectually the rats, mice, bugs, kakerles (a sort 
of insect that gives great annoyance in hot 
countries);—in a word, all the different animals 
offensive or injurious to man, as if sent on a 
special mission to remedy the evils these 
occasion. They do no injury to man, unless 
they find in him an enemy, who pursues 
and disturbs their quiet; in which case they 
attack his shoes so violently, that they are 
destroyed with incredible rapidity. On the 
other hand, they cause terrible devastations 
in plantations of trees, of which they will 
entirely strip the leaves in a single night: some 
of the ants crawl up and separate them from 
the tree, and then throw them down to their 
fellow-labourers, who are in waiting to 
receive and carry the leaves to the ant house. 
This curious species does not build its house 
above ground, but they dig holes, sometimes 
not less than eight feet in depth, and plaster 
the walls according to the rules of the art 
of masonry<sup><a id="note9text"/><a href="#note9" class="pginternal">9</a></sup>. Some travellers assert that 
one of the islands of the South Sea is 
infested by them to such a degree, that human 
beings cannot venture to disembark in it. 
The place is therefore, as it were, yielded to 
them, and is known to mariners by the name 
of Ant-island.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—And has no means been found 
to stop the progress of their devastations?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—As to what in this respect relates 
to the ant-island, I am not able to answer 
your question. In Europe, fortunately for 
the inhabitants, they are not so formidable: 
they however occasion sufficient 
inconvenience to make us study by what means we 
can best destroy them; and the surest methods 
are found to be fire and boiling-water. They 
have, besides, numerous enemies among 
insects and birds: the most terrible of all is 
the <i>myrmecophage</i>, or great ant-eater. 
Nature, who no doubt intended in this animal 
to produce a counterpoise against the 
abundant increase of ants, furnished it with a long 
gluey tongue, which it drops into the holes 
of the ant-house: the ants crawl upon it, 
and remain fixed. When the tongue is 
sufficiently covered with them, the ant-eater 
draws it back, swallows its mouthful greedily, 
and drops it again with the same success. It 
is pretended, that two ant-eaters hostilely 
engaged against an ant-house, will destroy 
every inhabitant in a short time. They raise 
small channels of light sand in the ants’ road, 
which the creatures in passing, fall entirely 
through, and are received by the enemy, who 
swallows them in an instant. Different 
savage nations, the Hottentots in particular, 
also devour ants by handfuls.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—What a frightful idea! I can 
scarcely believe the account, father: but this 
is enough on the chapter of ants. You 
mentioned just now, that in each class of the 
animal creation there were some individuals 
to be found which formed themselves into 
societies; pray tell me which they are.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—I know of no instance among 
birds, but that we have just been witnessing; 
but among quadrupeds there is at least one 
striking example of the social principle:—try 
to recollect it yourself.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—It is perhaps the elephant or the 
sea-otter?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—You have not guessed the one 
I thought of: in reality, however, the 
animals you have named discover also a strong 
disposition to live in society with their 
species, but they build nothing like a common 
house of reception:—try again; when you 
mentioned the sea-otter, you were not far 
from the right creature.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Ah, now I have found it: is it 
not the beaver, father? These animals are 
said to possess so much intelligence, that 
they are able to contrive and place dams to 
such streams or rivers as obstruct their 
design of building entire villages: by this 
operation they are furnished with a sort of ditch, 
which they use for their purpose.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—This is well observed; and, 
strictly speaking, the marmoset also may 
be included in the number of sociable 
quadrupeds: but these latter cannot be said to 
build, in the literal sense of the word; they 
dig themselves a common place of abode, 
a sort of cavern, in the mountains, and in 
these whole families of them pass the winter 
comfortably, in a continual sleep. It would 
have been more blameable in us to have 
forgotten them, as they are natives of our 
country; for it is principally in the highest 
Alps of Switzerland that the animal is 
found.</p>

<p>We had proceeded a considerable way in 
this kind of conversation, and had reached 
a wood, the trees of which were unknown 
to us: they in a small degree resembled the 
wild fig-tree; at least the fruit they bore, 
like the fig, was round in form, and 
contained a soft juicy substance full of small 
grains: there was, however, a sharpness 
and sourness in the taste. We took a nearer 
view of these trees, so remarkable for their 
height, which was from forty to sixty feet: 
the bark of the trunk was prickly or scaly, 
like the pine-apple, and wholly bare of 
branches, except at the very top, where 
they are loaded with them; some growing 
straight, and others bent in different 
directions. The leaves of these trees, at the 
extremity of the branches, are very thick; in 
substance, tough, like leather; and their 
upper and under surfaces presented different 
tints. But what surprised us the most, was 
a kind of gum, or bituminous matter, which 
appeared by some accidental means to issue 
in a liquid state from the trunk of the tree, 
and to become immediately hardened by the 
air. This discovery awakened Fritz’s whole 
attention: in Europe he had often made use 
of the gum produced by cherry-trees, either 
as a cement or varnish in the process of some 
of his youthful occupations; and the thought 
struck him, that he could do the same with 
what he now saw. He accordingly 
collected with his knife a certain quantity.</p>

<p>As we continued walking, he looked 
frequently at his gum, which he tried to soften 
with his breath, or with the heat of his hand, 
as he had been accustomed to do with that 
from the cherry-trees; but he found he 
could not succeed. On the other hand, 
his endeavours revealed a still more singular 
property in the substance, that of stretching 
considerably on being pulled by the two 
hands at its extremities; and, on letting go, 
of reducing itself instantly, by the power 
of an elastic principle. He was struck with 
surprise at this phenomenon, and sprang 
towards me, repeating the experiment before 
my eyes, and exclaiming, Look, father! if 
this is not the very kind of Indian rubber we 
formerly used, to rub out the bad strokes in 
our drawings: see! I can stretch it, and it 
instantly shrinks back when I let go.</p>

<p>Ah! what do you tell me? cried I with 
joy: such a discovery would be an invaluable 
benefit. The best thanks of all will be due 
to you, if you have discovered the true 
<i>caoutchouc</i> tree which yields the Indian rubber. 
Quick, hand it here, that I may examine it.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Look, father, how it will stretch! 
But I do not however understand how it can 
be so immensely valuable to us: can it be 
made to serve any other purpose than rubbing 
out a pencil mark? Nor am I quite sure that 
it is the very same ingredient. Why is it 
not black, like that we used in Europe?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—How many questions you ask 
at once! But give me time to breathe, and 
I will answer them. Caoutchouc is a kind 
of milky sap, which runs from certain trees, 
and no doubt from these before us, in 
consequence of incisions made in the bark. 
This liquor is received in vessels placed 
expressly for the purpose: it is afterwards 
made to take the form of dark-coloured 
bottles of different sizes, such as we have 
seen them, in the following manner. Before 
the liquor which runs out has time to 
coagulate, some small earthen bottles are dipped 
into it a sufficient number of times to form the 
thickness required. These vessels are then 
hung over smoke, which completely dries 
them, and gives the dark colour you allude 
to. Before they are entirely dry, a knife is 
drawn across them, which produces the lines 
or figures with which you have seen them 
marked. The concluding part of the 
operation is to break the bottle, which has served 
for a mould, and to get out the pieces by the 
passage of the neck, when the ingredient 
remains in the complete form of a bottle; 
soft to the touch, firm in substance, yet 
flexible and convenient to carry about, from 
being not subject to break; and may be 
even used as a vessel to contain liquor if 
necessary. In later times it has been 
discovered that this remarkable substance would 
extract the mark of black lead from paper; 
and it is common for artists to cut them into 
pieces, and to be generally provided with one 
of them.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—The fabrication of this article 
seems simple enough; therefore let us try to 
make some bottles of it, father, which will 
be convenient for carrying something for us 
to drink, when we go a long way in pursuit 
of game. But still I do not perceive how the 
discovery is, as you say, of so much value to 
us?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Not by this use of it alone, 
certainly; but its quality is admirable for being 
made into shoes and boots without seams, if 
we can add the assistance of earthen moulds 
of the size of the leg or foot to be fitted. 
Now then I suppose you can understand my 
reason for the joy I expressed at the sight of 
so unexpected a benefit. We must consider 
of some means of restoring masses of the 
caoutchouc to its liquid form, for spreading 
upon the moulds; and if we should not 
succeed, we must endeavour to draw it in 
sufficient quantities, when wanted for use and 
in its liquid state, from the trees themselves. 
There is besides another use for which this 
substance is both fit and excellent;—that of 
rendering water-proof any kind of linen or 
woollen production to which it may be 
applied.</p>

<p>Well satisfied with the discovery we had 
made, and our fancy already heated by the image 
of our fine India rubber boots and shoes<sup><a id="note10text"/><a href="#note10" class="pginternal">10</a></sup>, we 
continued our way, endeavouring still further 
to explore the wood, which stretched before 
us to a considerable distance. After passing 
through it, we reached another called Cœos, 
with a small part of the skirts of which we 
were already acquainted, it being the same 
which stretches from the sea shore to the 
top of the rocks. There we rested ourselves 
with great pleasure for a few minutes, and 
were regaled with two cocoa-nuts, which 
Turk had forced from two little monkeys 
which were playing on the ground like 
children. Upon the loss of their food they left 
him and scampered to the top of the trees, 
while we on our parts devoured the booty. 
After this refreshment, we once more 
resumed our route; we were determined to reach 
the furthest outlet of this great wood of 
cocoa-trees, to examine the dimensions and limits of 
our empire: in a short time we had taken 
some observations that enabled us to ascertain 
this point; and looking attentively, we 
recognised the great bay on the right, and on the 
left Cape Disappointment, which latter had 
been the furthest point of our earliest 
excursion.</p>

<p>In this spot alone, and mixed with a 
quantity of cocoa-trees, I discovered a sort of tree 
of smaller growth which I presumed must be 
the sago palm: one of these had been thrown 
down by the wind, so that I was able to 
examine it thoroughly. I perceived that the 
trunk of it contained a considerable quantity 
of a mealy substance; I therefore, with my 
hatchet laid it open long-ways, and cleared 
it of the whole contents; and on tasting the 
ingredient, I found it was exactly like the sago 
I had often eaten in Europe<sup><a id="note11text"/><a href="#note11" class="pginternal">11</a></sup>. The 
operation of cutting the trunk had disclosed also 
a new treasure, and one which confirmed my 
belief of having found the real sago 
palm-tree; it was the perceiving in the powder, the 
particular kind of larva which lives 
entirely on sago, and is considered the greatest 
delicacy of the West Indies for the palate. The 
interest I felt on the subject, made me eager 
for an experiment which would immediately 
determine my conclusion. I directed Fritz 
to get some dry branches and make a fire; I 
ran a sharp stick through half a dozen of the 
larvae, and toasted them on the flame; 
the agreeable odour which exhaled from them, 
and is peculiar to the species, made me certain 
I was not mistaken: I soon ate one or two of 
them with a potatoe, which served for bread, 
and I may venture to assure the epicures of 
Europe, that if they desire to obtain a delicious 
morsel, this alone is worth the pains of a 
sea-voyage for the purpose. Fritz, who 
from the first had taken the liberty to smile 
at my fancy, and to assure me that nothing 
in the world should induce him to partake 
of my dish, attracted by the delicious smell 
and good appearance of the food, had no 
longer the power to desist: he asked me to 
give him a small share, and joined me in a 
chorus of the highest praise. It was now his 
turn to search for more, and to use the same 
ceremony in dressing them.</p>

<p>After our repast, we got up and began to 
consider how much further we would go: 
the thick bushes of bamboo, through which 
it was impossible to pass, seemed to furnish 
a natural conclusion to our journey. We 
were therefore unable to ascertain whether 
we should or should not have found a 
passage beyond the wall of rocks: we 
perceived then no better resource than to turn to 
the left towards Cape Disappointment, where 
the luxurious plantations of sugar-canes we 
had discovered on our first visit, now again 
drew our attention. That we might not 
return empty-handed to Falcon’s Stream, and 
might deserve forgiveness for so long an 
absence, we each took the pains to cut a large 
bundle of the canes, which we threw across 
the ass’s back, not forgetting the ceremony 
of reserving one apiece to refresh ourselves 
with along the road. We soon arrived on 
the well-known shore of the sea, which at 
length afforded us an open and shorter path; 
we next, and not long after, reached the wood 
of gourds, where we found our sledge loaded 
as we had left it the night before: we took 
the sugar-canes from the ass, and fastened 
them to the sledge, and then we harnessed 
the ass, and the patient animal began to draw 
towards home.</p>

<p>We arrived at Falcon’s Stream without 
any further adventure, and rather early in 
the evening. We received at first some kind 
reproofs; we were next questioned, and 
lastly thanked, as we displayed our various 
treasures, but particularly the sugar-canes: each 
of the boys seized one and began to suck it, 
as did their mother also. Nothing could be 
more amusing than to hear Fritz relate, with 
unaffected interest, the recent discoveries we 
had made, and imitate the gestures of the 
heath-cock as he held it up for them to 
examine:—the whole company continued to 
shout with laughter for many minutes. Then 
came the history of the colony of birds and 
their singular habitation, and of the green 
parrot, all of which was listened to with the 
delight excited by a fairy tale. Fritz showed 
them the handsome red parrot dead, also 
the great blue jay, both of which they did not 
cease to admire; but when Fritz took out of 
his waistcoat pocket the little parrot all alive, 
there was no bounds to their ecstasy: they 
jumped about like mad things, and I was 
obliged to interpose my authority to prevent 
their tearing him to pieces, in the struggle 
who should have him first. Francis asked 
his eldest brother if he had not already taught 
him some words in their way home? I 
intended the office of preceptor for you, said 
Fritz, who are such a little prate-apace that 
the parrot would not be long in learning. 
Francis nearly devoured the little animal with 
kisses, repeating a thousand times <i>pretty little 
parrot!</i> At length the bird was fastened by 
the leg to one of the roots of the trees, till a 
cage could be made for him; and was fed 
with acorns, which he appeared exceedingly 
to relish. We next gave an account of the 
excellent dinner we had made on the larvæ 
found in the sago-meal, which excited the 
envy of all but my wife, who was never 
partial to new kinds of food. I therefore 
promised her for her share of so many dainties, 
some real mushrooms which grew 
spontaneously from the powder of the sago. She was 
delighted with the prospect of the candles I 
assured her I was now able to furnish, and 
also of the boots and shoes. Fritz took a 
bit of the rubber from his pocket and drew 
it to its full length, and then let it suddenly 
go, to the great amusement of little Francis.</p>

<p>Soon after night fall, being much fatigued, 
and after partaking of a hearty supper, we 
all mounted the ladder; and having carefully 
drawn it up, we fell exhausted, into sound 
and peaceful slumbers.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap24" id="chap24" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER XXIV.<br/>
<small><em>Useful occupations and labours.—Embellishments; 
a painful but natural sentiment.</em></small></h2>

<p><span class="smcap">On</span> the following day, neither my wife nor 
the boys left me a moment’s tranquillity till 
I had put my manufactory of candles in some 
forwardness: I therefore set myself to 
recollect all I had read on the subject. I soon 
perceived that I should be at a loss for a 
little suet or mutton fat to mix with the wax 
I had procured from the berries, for making 
the light burn clearer; but as I had neither 
of these articles, I was compelled to proceed 
without them. I put as many berries into a 
vessel as it would contain, and set it on a 
moderate fire; my wife in the mean time 
employed herself in making some wicks with 
the threads of sail-cloth. When we saw an 
oily matter of a pleasing smell and light green 
colour, rise to the top of the liquid the 
berries had yielded, we carefully skimmed it off 
and put it into a separate vessel, taking care 
to keep it warm. We continued this process 
till the berries were exhausted and had 
produced a considerable quantity of wax; we 
next dipped the wicks one by one into it, 
while it remained liquid, and then hung them 
on the bushes to harden: in a short time, 
we dipped them again, and continued 
repeating the operation, till the candles were 
increased to the proper size, and they were 
then put in a place and kept, till sufficiently 
hardened for use. We, however, were all 
eager to judge of our success that very 
evening, by burning one of the candles, with 
which we were all well satisfied. In 
consequence of this new treasure, we should now 
be able to sit up later, and consequently spend 
less of our time in sleep; but independently 
of this advantage, the mere sight of a candle, 
which for so long a time we had been 
deprived of, caused ecstasies of joy to all.</p>

<p>Our success in this last enterprise, 
encouraged us to think of another, the idea of 
which had long been cherished by our kind 
steward of provisions: it was, to make fresh 
butter of the cream we every day skimmed 
from the milk, and which was frequently, 
to her great vexation, spoiled, and given to 
the animals for want of such a process. The 
utensil we stood in need of, was a churn, to 
turn the cream in. Having earnestly applied 
my thoughts, as to the most effectual manner 
of conquering the difficulty, I suddenly 
recollected what I had read in a book of 
travels, of the method used by the Hottentots for 
making butter; but in adopting it, I 
determined to introduce one feature of proceeding, 
for which, apparently, they have not a 
partiality; and this was, the utmost attention to 
cleanliness. Instead of a sheep-skin sewed 
together at its extremities, I emptied a large 
gourd of its natural contents, and filled it 
again with cream, and stopped it quite close 
with the piece I had cut from the top. I 
placed my vase of cream on a piece of coarse 
linen cloth with four corners, which last I tied 
to four stakes; I placed one boy midway 
between each stake, and directed them to shake 
the linen briskly, but with a steady measure, 
for a certain time. This exercise, which 
seemed like children’s play, pleased them 
mightily, and they called it rocking the 
cradle. They performed their office singing 
and laughing all the time, and in an hour, 
on taking off the cover, we had the 
satisfaction of seeing some excellent butter. We 
heartily congratulated each other, and 
praised the workmen, who by their constancy of 
labour, had thus produced one of the first 
conveniences in the list of articles for food.</p>

<p>The employments we had thus been 
engaged in, were little different from play; 
but now a question occurred of one that 
would require our most serious attention:—it 
was the constructing a cart, in all its forms, 
for the better conveyance of our effects from 
place to place, instead of the sledge which 
caused us so much fatigue to load and draw. 
Many reasons induced me to confine my 
attempt in the first instance to a two-wheel 
cart, and to observe the result before I 
ventured on one with four wheels.</p>

<p>I will not fatigue the reader with the 
detail of my undertaking: I tried earnestly and 
long to accomplish my machine; but it did 
not entirely succeed to my wishes, and I wasted 
in the attempt both time and timber. I 
however produced what from courtesy we 
called a cart; but I would not advise my readers 
to take it for a model, though, to say the 
truth, to us it answered the purpose for 
which it was designed.</p>

<p>While I was thus laboriously engaged, the 
boys and their mother were no less busy in 
matters of use or convenience; and I now 
and then left my cart to assist them with my 
advice, though, to do them justice, I must 
say, they seldom stood in need of it. They 
undertook to transplant the greatest part 
of the European fruit-trees, to place them 
where they would be in a better situation for 
growth, according to the properties of each. 
They planted vine shoots round the roots of 
the magnificent tree we inhabited, and round 
the trunks of some other kinds of trees which 
grew near; and we watched them in the fond 
anticipation that they would in time ascend 
to a height capable of being formed into a 
sort of trellis, and help to cool us by their 
shade. In the climate we inhabited, the 
vine requires the protection of the larger 
trees against the scorching rays of the sun. 
Lastly, we planted two parallel lines of 
saplings, consisting of chesnut, cherry, and the 
common nut-trees, to form an avenue from 
Family Bridge to Falcon’s Stream, which 
would hereafter afford us a cool shade in 
our walks to Tent House. This last 
undertaking was not to be effected without a 
degree of labour and fatigue the most 
discouraging:—the ground was to be cleared of 
every thing it had produced, and a certain 
breadth covered with sand, left higher in the 
middle than on the sides, for the sake of 
being always dry. The boys fetched the 
sand from the sea-side in their 
wheel-barrows, and I also nailed together a few pieces 
of wood, in the form of a tub, which could 
be harnessed to the ass to ease in some 
measure their fatigue.</p>

<p>Our next concern was to introduce, if 
possible, some shade and other improvements 
on the barren site of Tent House, and to 
render our occasional abode or visits there more 
secure. We began by planting in a 
quincunx all those sorts of trees that thrive best 
in the sun, such as lemon, pistachio, almond, 
mulberry, and lime-trees; lastly, some of a 
kind of orange-tree which attains to a 
prodigious size, and bears a fruit as large as the 
head of a child<sup><a id="note12text"/><a href="#note12" class="pginternal">12</a></sup>, and weighs not less than 
twelve or fourteen pounds. The commoner 
sorts of nut-trees we placed along the shore 
in the most favourable situations. The 
better to conceal and fortify our tent, which 
inclosed all our stores, we formed on the 
accessible side, a hedge of wild orange and 
lemon-trees, which produce an abundant prickly 
foliage; and to add to the agreeableness of 
their appearance, we introduced here and there 
the pomegranate; nor did I omit to make a 
little arbour of the guava shrub, which is 
easily raised from slips, and bears a small 
fruit rather pleasant to the taste. We also 
took care to introduce at proper places a 
certain number of the largest sorts of trees, 
which in time would serve the double 
purpose of shading annual plants, and, with 
benches placed under them, of a kind of 
private cabinet. Should any accident or alarm 
compel us to retire to the fortress of 
Tent-House, a thing of the first importance would 
be to find there sufficient food for our cattle. 
For the greater security, I formed a 
plantation of the thorny fig-tree, of sufficient breadth 
to occupy the space between our fortress and 
the river, thus rendering it difficult for an 
enemy to approach.</p>

<p>The curving form of the river having left 
some partial elevations of the soil within the 
inclosure, I found means to work them into 
slopes and angles so as to serve as bastions 
to our two cannon from the pinnace and 
our other fire-arms, should we ever be 
attacked by savages. When this was all 
complete, we perceived that one thing more was 
wanting, which was to make such alterations 
in Family Bridge as would enable us to use 
it as a drawbridge or to take it away 
entirely, this being the only point at which the 
passage of the river could be easily effected. 
But as we could not do all at once, we 
contented ourselves, for present safety, with 
taking away the first planks of the bridge at 
each end every time we passed it. My 
concluding labour was to plant some cedars 
along the usual landing-places, to which we 
might fasten our vessels.</p>

<p>We employed six whole weeks in 
effecting what for the present it was possible to 
effect, of these laborious arrangements; but 
the continual exercise of mind and body 
they imposed, visibly contributed to the 
physical and moral health of the boys, and to 
the support of cheerfulness and serenity in 
ourselves. The more we embellished our 
abode by the work of our own hands, the 
more it became dear to our hearts. The 
constant and strict observance of the 
sabbath-day afforded such an interval of rest, as 
could not fail to restore our strength; and 
inspire us with the desire of new exertions. 
The sentiment of gratitude which filled our 
minds towards the Supreme Being, who had 
saved us from destruction and supplied us 
with all things needful, demanded utterance, 
and on Sundays we might allow ourselves the 
indulgence of pouring out our hearts in 
thankfulness. Thus our religious exercises, 
succeeded by gymnastic recreations, and these 
again by pleasing rambles near Falcon’s 
Stream, during which I did not fail to 
inculcate some moral truth, served to increase 
at once, our usefulness and our happiness. 
It was deserving of remark, that though the 
boys had been employed in severe labour 
through the week, yet they were ever ready 
to encounter the climbing of trees, running 
races, swimming, shooting with the bow and 
arrow, when Sunday came; a proof that 
it is not so much inaction which renews the 
strength, as a change of occupations.</p>

<p>But the repetition of these exercises wore 
out our clothes so fast, that another trip to 
the vessel was absolutely necessary. We had 
nearly exhausted the stock we had already 
brought away; we were now absolutely in 
rags, and we feared we saw the time when 
we should be compelled to renounce the 
European modes of dress. I had also another 
reason; the cart I had just completed, and 
with which at first I was quite enchanted on 
further acquaintance disclosed a defect which 
it was scarcely possible to endure; it was a 
violent creaking of the wheels at every turn, 
and in addition the wheels moved so 
imperfectly round the axle-tree, that the united 
strength of the ass and the cow could 
scarcely drag the machine along. It was in 
vain that, in spite of my wife’s reproofs, I 
applied a little butter now and then; in an hour 
or two the butter was dried, and the wheels 
remained the same.</p>

<p>These two circumstances compelled us 
then once more to have recourse to the 
vessel, which heaven and the waves had still 
preserved. We knew there remained on 
board five or six chests containing apparel, 
and we suspected there were also some tubs 
of pitch and grease for wheels in her hold, 
which we should thus obtain. To these 
motives were added, that of an earnest desire 
to take another look at her, and, if 
practicable, to bring away a few pieces of cannon 
which might be fixed on the new bastions at 
Tent House, and thus we should be prepared 
for the worst.</p>

<p>The first fine day I assembled my three 
eldest sons, and put my design into 
execution. We reached the wreck without any 
striking adventure, and found her still fixed 
between the rocks, but somewhat more 
shattered than when we had last seen her. We 
did not lose a moment in searching for the 
tubs of pitch, which, with the help of the 
pulley, we soon conveyed into the pinnace; 
we next secured the chests of clothes, and 
whatever remained of ammunition stores; 
powder, shot, and even such pieces of 
cannon as we could remove, while those that 
were too heavy, we stripped of their wheels, 
which might be extremely useful.</p>

<p>But to effect our purpose, it was necessary 
to spend several days in visits to the vessel, 
returning constantly in the evening, enriched 
with every thing of a portable nature which 
the wreck contained; doors, windows, locks, 
bolts, nothing escaped our grasp: so that the 
ship was now entirely emptied, with the 
exception of the heavy cannon and three or 
four immense copper caldrons, which were 
too heavy to be got into the boat. We by 
degrees contrived to tie these heavy articles to 
two or three empty casks well pitched, which 
would effectually sustain themselves and the 
cannon above water. When these measures 
were taken, I came to the resolution of 
blowing up the wreck by a process similar to that 
with which I had so well succeeded with the 
pinnace. I directed my views to that part 
of the vessel which had been entirely stripped 
of every thing; I supposed that the wind and 
tide would convey the beams and timbers 
ashore, and thus with little pains we should 
be possessed of a sufficient quantity of 
materials for erecting a building at some future 
time.</p>

<p>We accordingly prepared a cask of 
gunpowder, which we left on board for the 
purpose: we rolled it to the place most 
favourable for our views: we made a small 
opening in its side, and at the moment of quitting 
the vessel, we inserted a piece of match-wood 
which we lighted at the last moment, as before. 
We then sailed with all possible expedition for 
Safety Bay, where we arrived in a short time. 
We could not, however, withdraw our 
thoughts from the wreck and from the 
expected explosion for a single moment. I had 
cut the match a sufficient length for us to 
hope that she would not go to pieces before 
dark. I proposed to my wife to have our 
supper carried to a little point of land from 
whence we had a view of her, and here we 
waited for the moment of her destruction 
with lively impatience.</p>

<p>About the time of night-fall, a majestic 
rolling sound like thunder, accompanied by 
a column of fire and smoke, announced that 
the ship, so awfully concerned with our 
peculiar destiny, which had brought us to our 
present abode in a desert, and furnished us 
there with such vast supplies for general 
comfort, was that instant annihilated, and 
withdrawn for ever from the face of man!—At 
this moment, love for the country that gave 
us birth, that most powerful sentiment of 
the human heart, sunk with a new force into 
ours. The ship had disappeared for ever! 
Could we then form a hope ever to behold 
that country more! We had made a sort of 
jubilee of witnessing the spectacle; the boys 
had clapped their hands and skipped about 
in joyful expectation; but the noise was 
heard;—the smoke and sparks were seen 
while the sudden change which took place 
in our minds could be compared only to the 
rapidity of these effects of our concerted 
scheme against the vessel. We all observed 
a mournful silence, and all rose, as it were, 
by an impulse of mutual condemnation, and 
with our heads sinking on our bosoms, and 
our eyes cast upon the ground, we took the 
road to Tent House.</p>

<p>My wife was the only person who was 
sensible of motives for consolation in the 
distressing scene which had been passing; she 
was now relieved from all the cruel fears for 
our safety in our visits to a shattered wreck, 
that was liable to fall to pieces during the 
time we were on board. From this moment 
she conceived a stronger partiality for our 
island, and the modes of life we had adopted. 
A night’s repose had in some measure relieved 
the melancholy of the preceding evening, and 
I went rather early in the morning with the 
boys, to make further observations as to the 
effects of this remarkable event. We 
perceived in the water, and along the shore, 
abundant vestiges of the departed wreck, and 
among the rest, at a certain distance, the 
empty casks, caldrons, and cannon, all tied 
together, and floating in a large mass upon the 
water. We jumped instantly into the pinnace, 
with the tub-boat fastened to it, and made a 
way towards them through the numberless 
pieces of timber, <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr>, that intervened, and in 
a little time reached the object of our search, 
which from its great weight moved slowly 
upon the waves. Fritz with his accustomed 
readiness flung some rope round two 
four-pounders, and contrived to fasten them to 
our barge, after which he secured also an 
enormous quantity of poles, laths, and other 
useful articles. With this rich booty we 
returned to land.</p>

<p>We performed three more trips for the 
purpose of bringing away more cannon, 
caldrons, fragments of masts, <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr>, all of which 
we deposited for present convenience in 
Safety Bay: and now began our most 
fatiguing operations, the removing such 
numerous and heavy stores from the boats to Tent 
House. We separated the cannon and the 
caldrons from the tub-raft, and from each 
other, and left them in a place which was 
accessible for the sledge and the beasts of 
burden. With the help of the crow we 
succeeded in getting the caldrons upon the 
sledge, and in replacing the four wheels we 
had before taken from the cannon; and now 
found it easy to make the cow and the ass 
draw them. We in the same manner 
conveyed away all the pieces of wood we wished 
to preserve dry, and what stores remained, we 
tied with cords to stakes along the shore, to 
protect them from the tide.</p>

<p>The largest of the boilers or copper 
caldrons, which had been intended as principal 
utensils for a proposed manufactory of sugar, 
we now found of the most essential use. We 
brought out all our barrels of gunpowder, and 
placed them on their ends in three separate 
groups, at a short distance from our tent; we 
dug a little ditch round the whole, to draw 
off the moisture from the ground, and then 
put one of the caldrons turned upside down 
upon each, which completely answered the 
purpose of an out-house. The cannon were 
covered with sail-cloth, and upon this we laid 
heavy branches of trees; the larger casks of 
gunpowder we prudently removed under a 
projecting piece of rock, where, should they 
even blow up, no mischief could arise to the 
inhabitants of Tent House: these we covered 
with planks, till we should have leisure for 
executing the plan of an ammunition 
storehouse, about which we had all become 
extremely earnest.</p>

<p>My wife, in taking a survey of these our 
labours, made the agreeable discovery that two 
of our ducks and one of the geese had been 
brooding under a large bush, and at the time 
were conducting their little families to the 
water. The news produced general rejoicings; 
Fritz and Ernest looked forward to some 
luxurious Sunday-dinners, and Jack and 
Francis wondered what the young birds could 
think, when they first saw any human 
creatures! We in a short time found means to 
tame them, by throwing them occasionally 
some crumbs of manioc. This last 
employment, together with the gambols of the little 
creatures, so forcibly carried our thoughts to 
Falcon’s Stream, that we all conceived the 
ardent desire of returning to the society of 
the numerous old friends we had left there. 
One sighed for his monkey, another for his 
flamingo; Francis for his parrot, and his 
mother for her poultry-yard, her various 
housewifery accommodations, and her 
comfortable bed. We therefore fixed the next 
day for our departure, and set about the 
necessary preparations.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap25" id="chap25" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER XXV.<br/>
<small><em>A new excursion.—Palm-tree wine.</em></small></h2>

<p><span class="smcap">On</span> entering our new plantation of 
fruit-trees forming the avenue to Falcon’s Stream, 
we observed that they had not a vigorous 
appearance, and that they inclined to curve 
a little in the stalk: we therefore immediately 
resolved to support them with sticks, and 
I proposed a walk to the vicinity of Cape 
Disappointment, for the purpose of cutting 
some bamboos. I had no sooner pronounced 
the words, than the three eldest boys and 
their mother exclaimed at once that they 
would accompany me. Their curiosity had 
been excited by the accounts Fritz and I 
had given of the variety of amusing objects 
we had met with in our visit to the spot: 
each found a sound and special reason why 
he must not fail to be of the party:—one of 
the hens was observed to be brooding, and 
some of the eggs of the heath-fowl were to 
be fetched and laid under her;—our 
provision of candles was nearly exhausted, and a 
new stock of berries must therefore be 
procured, for my wife now repaired our clothes 
by candle-light, while I employed myself in 
composing a journal of the events of every 
day:—Then, the sow had again deserted us, 
and nothing could be so probable as that we 
should find her in the acorn wood:—Jack 
would fain gather some guavas for himself, 
and Francis must needs see the sugar-canes 
he sucked with so keen a relish. In short, 
all would visit this land of Canaan.</p>

<p>We accordingly fixed the following 
morning, and set out in full procession. For 
myself, I had a great desire to explore with 
more attention this part of our island, and to 
reap some more substantial advantages from 
its produce. I therefore made some 
preparations for sleeping, should we find the day 
too short for all we might have to accomplish: 
I took the cart instead of the sledge, having 
fixed some planks across it for Francis and 
his mother to sit upon when they should be 
tired; I was careful to be provided with the 
different implements we might want, some 
rope machinery I had contrived for rendering 
the climbing of trees more easy, since we 
could not always expect to meet with a crab 
who should obligingly give us his assistance; 
and lastly, some provisions, consisting of a 
piece of the salted tortoise, some water in a 
gourd-flask, and one bottle of wine from the 
captain’s store. When all was placed in the 
cart, I for this time harnessed to it both the 
ass and the cow, as I expected the load 
would be increased on our return; and we 
set out, taking the road of the potatoe and 
manioc plantations. Our first halt was at 
the tree of the colony of birds; close upon 
the same spot were also the trees whose 
berries produced the wax for candles, and 
intermixed with these some of the guava kind. 
On this second occasion of seeing the birds, 
I recollected to what species they belonged, 
which by naturalists is named <i>Loxia gregaria</i> 
(Sociable Grossbeak).</p>

<p>It was not without much difficulty that 
we conducted the cart through the thick 
entangled bushes, the most intricate of which I 
every where cut down, and we helped to 
push it along with all our strength. We 
succeeded tolerably well at last; and that the 
poor animals might have time to rest, we 
determined to pass several hours in this place 
which furnished such a variety of agreeable 
and useful objects. We began by gathering 
a bag full of the guavas; and after regaling 
ourselves plentifully upon them, we put the 
remainder into the cart. We next examined 
anew, and with close attention, the 
interesting structure of the nest inhabited by the 
colony of birds, and concluded, contrary to 
the opinion I had formerly entertained, that 
the little green parrot was an invader who 
had seized upon an empty place, and fixed 
himself in it; for numerous flocks of the 
brown-coloured birds now passed in and out, 
rested upon the bushes which produced the 
wax, and devoured large quantities of the 
berries, which explained the reason of their 
building their singularly-contrived abode in 
this particular spot. We claimed the same 
privilege as the birds, and had soon filled 
another bag with the berries we found 
means to beat down from the bushes. 
Seeing them so greedily consumed by those little 
animals, the boys desired to follow their 
example, and accordingly tasted them, but 
found them too insipid for their palate.</p>

<p>We had brought the monkey with us to 
search out the nests of the heath-fowl, that 
we might seize upon the eggs; but we 
postponed the setting him on this employment 
till we should again reach the place on our 
way back, for fear of breaking the eggs in 
carrying. We continued our way, and soon 
arrived at the caoutchouc, or gum-elastic 
trees: I thought we could not do better than 
to make a halt here, and endeavour to 
collect a sufficient quantity of the sap, to make 
the different kinds of utensils, and the 
impenetrable boots and shoes, as I had before 
proposed. It was with this design that I had 
taken care to bring with me several of the 
most capacious of the gourd rinds. I 
made deep incisions in the trunks, and fixed 
some large leaves of trees partly doubled 
together lengthways, to the place, to serve as a 
sort of channel to conduct the sap to the 
vessels I had kept in readiness to receive it. We 
had not long begun this process before we 
perceived the sap begin to run out as white 
as milk, and in large drops, so that we were 
not without hopes by the time of our return 
to find the vessels full, and thus to have 
obtained a sufficient quantity of the ingredient 
for a first experiment.</p>

<p>We left the sap running, and pursued our 
way, which led us to the wood of cocoa-trees; 
from thence we passed to the left, and stopped 
half way between the bamboos and the sugar 
canes, intending to furnish ourselves with a 
provision of each. We aimed our course so 
judiciously, that on clearing the skirts of the 
wood we found ourselves in an open plain, 
with the sugar-cane plantations on our left, 
and on our right those of bamboo 
interspersed with various kinds of palm-trees, 
and in front the magnificent bay formed by 
Cape Disappointment, which stretched far 
out into the sea.</p>

<p>The prospect that now presented itself to 
our view was of such exquisite beauty, that 
we determined to choose it for our 
resting-place, and to make it the central point of 
every excursion we should in future make: 
we were even more than half disposed to 
desert our pretty Falcon’s Stream, and 
transport our possessions hither: a moment’s 
reflection, however, betrayed the folly of 
quitting the thousand comforts we had there 
with almost incredible industry assembled: 
and we dismissed the thought with 
promising ourselves to include this ravishing spot 
ever more in our projects for excursions. 
We disengaged the animals, that they might 
graze and refresh themselves under the 
shade of the palm-trees, and sat down to 
enjoy our own repast, and to converse on the 
beauty of the scene.</p>

<p>Our next proceeding was to divide 
amongst us the different occupations which 
were the objects of our walk. Some 
scampered away to the right to cut bamboos; 
others to the left, to secure the sugar-canes, 
of both which a large bundle was collected, 
tied together, and put into the cart. The 
bodily exertions made by the boys again 
excited their desire to eat; they sucked some 
of the canes, but their hunger was not 
appeased. Their mother, however, refused to 
let them have the remainder of the 
provisions, and they therefore cast a longing eye 
to the tops of the trees, where they saw a 
great number of cocoa-nuts suspended. 
After a short deliberation, it was determined 
that two of them should venture on 
climbing to the top, a height of from sixty to 
eighty feet, and with the hatchet which 
would be fastened to his waist, should beat 
them down. Fritz and Jack had no 
hesitation; they selected the trees which had most 
fruit for their attempt, and with my 
assistance they proceeded a considerable way; 
but when left to themselves, their legs and 
arms were too short to embrace the trunk of 
the tree, and having no place of rest for 
either, they scampered down again much 
quicker than they had ascended, chagrined 
and out of countenance. It was now my 
part to interfere: I wished, said I, to let 
you try for yourselves first; but though it 
may be well to be possessed of personal 
courage, yet at your age, my boys, it is 
advisable to distrust your own suggestions and 
to ask advice from persons of experience: 
had you applied for mine, I should have 
told you how impossible it would be for 
you to mount such a tree as this without 
assistance. It is true, very young 
sailor-boys mount to the heads of masts, which are 
nearly as high; but then the mast is of 
small circumference, and the boys have, 
besides, the aid of ropes. I have something 
here which may answer the same 
purpose;—here are some pieces of prepared 
shagreen, which must be tied round your legs; 
then with this cord I shall fasten you by the 
body to the trunk of the tree, but so loosely 
that it will move up and down when you do; 
by sitting occasionally on this cord, you will 
be enabled to rest when necessary, and so 
push on by little and little. This manner of 
climbing trees is practised by savages and by 
negro slaves with success. At first you will 
make but slow progress, but after two or 
three experiments you will find no further 
difficulty.</p>

<p>The boys had listened with entire 
attention: excited by the description I had made, 
they eagerly demanded to be equipped for 
the experiment, and their success exceeded 
our expectation; they with tolerable ease 
reached the top of the tree, where the thick 
tufted foliage furnished a commodious seat, 
and from whence they sent forth exulting 
salutations. They now took their hatchets 
and set to work, when presently a shower of 
cocoa-nuts descended, from which the 
persons below had barely time to escape by 
running to a distance. The monkey having 
observed what was going on, took the fancy 
of imitating his young masters, and springing 
from the ground into one of the trees, 
he with his teeth and his paws sent down as 
many nuts as the hatchet: he then came 
down with equal swiftness, and seating 
himself on the ground began to crack one of 
the nuts, making all the time such strange 
grimaces as to occasion us all much 
merriment. The two boys had descended with 
more caution than the monkey, and with 
perfect safety: they received our 
compliments on the skill and address they had 
evinced in so promptly making themselves 
masters of so valuable an art.</p>

<p>Ernest was the only person who took no 
part in this animated scene: his brothers 
began to banter him a little on the old 
subject of his indolence; they approached him 
gravely, and offered him some cocoa-nut, 
<i>to refresh him after so much fatigue;</i> he 
made no reply, and pushed the offering 
aside. He then rose from his seat, and 
began to examine the trees one by one with 
deep attention; he requested me to saw off 
the top of a cocoa-nut for him, which he 
emptied, and fastened round it cross-ways 
a string with a loop to hang it to the button 
of his waistcoat. Not one of us could 
imagine what he was going to do; he placed a 
small hatchet in his girdle, and then 
advancing a few paces out of the group we 
formed, he in a graceful manner pronounced 
the following little address:</p>

<p>“I am sensible, my dear parents, that in 
our republic, or rather in our kingdom, (for 
our father is to us as a beloved sovereign, 
and our mother as a much cherished queen,) 
I am I say sensible, that here, as in Europe, 
he who has sufficient talent to raise himself 
above the rest, is held in high consideration 
and esteem. For my own part, I must 
confess I had more pleasure in remaining in 
tranquillity without endeavours to obtain 
distinction. I have but little ambition, and 
am fond of quiet, and therefore the greater 
will be my desert, if I, like the rest, resolve 
to contribute to the general good of this our 
country, by executing, as the other subjects 
have done, the task of climbing trees; well 
satisfied if, like them, I should obtain the 
applauses of my king and of my 
fellow-citizens!—To the tree then, since climbing 
is the question,” said he, saluting us with 
his hand as he sprang away to a high 
palm-tree of the cabbage species<sup><a id="note13text"/><a href="#note13" class="pginternal">13</a></sup>.</p>

<p>I looked with extreme curiosity; but when 
I saw him courageously grasp the trunk with 
his legs and arms, and proceed to climb 
without assistance, I approached the tree 
and offered him the shagreen and the cord; 
he accepted the first, but refused the cord. 
I am naturally somewhat awkward, observed 
he, and to have to draw a cord after me 
would only add to my difficulty; besides, I 
think I have no occasion for it. In fact, he 
employed so much earnest desire in the 
undertaking, and exerted his limbs with so 
much spirit, that I was astonished at the 
rapidity of his ascent, and conceived at every 
remove the most terrible alarm, since the 
further from the ground, the more danger 
would attend him, should any slip or other 
accident occasion him to fall. I kept my 
station near the foot of the tree, continually 
encouraging him by calling out: Bravo, 
bravo, boy Ernest, though last in attempt, 
yet it is you who have shown the greatest 
courage, for you have not, like your 
brothers, had assistance from the cord. Fritz 
and Jack, who were spectators also, now, 
instead of seeming humbled by my repeated 
commendation of Ernest, to my great 
surprise, were observed whispering each other 
with an air of self-satisfaction; I could not 
for my own part conceive what could be 
the subject of their seeming exultation, but 
I soon learnt the truth. When Ernest now 
showed himself at the very top of the tree, 
Fritz and Jack burst into an immoderate fit 
of laughter:—Pains enough for nothing, 
master Ernest, bawled they as loud as they 
could: in your sublime wisdom, master 
Ernest, you have chosen a tree which has 
no fruit upon it. Not a single cocoa-nut 
will you bring down, your most devoted 
fellow-subjects can truly assure you!</p>

<p>Not a cocoa-nut, certainly, replied Ernest 
in his loudest voice; but, brothers, you shall 
receive a crown instead, and at the same 
instant he with his hatchet cut off the tufted 
summit of the palm-tree, and a large mass 
of tender leaves fell at our feet.</p>

<p>Mischievous boy! cried his mother: 
disappointed of his cocoa-nuts, see if he has 
not cut off the head of this magnificent 
palm-tree, and it will perish in consequence! Ah! 
Ernest, what do you not deserve for thus 
giving way to anger!</p>

<p>I am happy, mother, to be able to correct 
your mistake, cried Ernest from his stately 
column, where he stood erect, and looked 
exactly like a statue. What I have done was not 
from anger, but from a desire to procure 
you one of the finest kinds of food this 
country affords; the tree is the cabbage 
palm-tree, and believe me you will find it a 
more valuable acquisition than even our 
highly prized cocoa-nuts!—A cabbage! 
exclaimed Fritz: Ah, ah! Master Ernest, so 
you would make us believe that cabbages 
grow on palm-trees, and that we are in a 
land of wonders!</p>

<p>In a land of wonders, my son, we can 
never fail to be, in whatever place we may 
abide, for the whole scheme of nature is a 
perpetual tissue of wonders proceeding from 
the hand of a beneficent Creator; and those 
we now behold appear to us extraordinary, 
only because we view them for the first 
time. Examine this production, to which 
the name of palm-cabbage has been given 
by naturalists; it has not the shape of our 
European cabbage; but, as Ernest tells you, 
it is a most delicious and refreshing food: 
he has also had the merit of distinguishing 
this tree from others: and let me seize the 
present occasion, young ones, to reprove you 
for the taunting spirit in which you viewed 
your brother’s proceedings, who, though less 
enterprising and less alert than you, so far 
surpasses any one of you in observation and 
reflection. To him we are indebted for the 
most useful of the discoveries which have been 
made—the potatoes and the manioc: if, 
instead of envying each other, you were to 
unite your various endowments, what 
happiness and what success might be the result! 
Ernest would think for you, you would 
execute for him; thus, all would share in the 
advantages which would result from this 
spirit of concord, so necessary among 
mankind, but particularly among brothers. Let 
me also recommend to you to accustom 
yourselves to suspend your judgement on 
the actions of another, till those actions are 
complete and you are quite sure both of 
their object and effect. Even you, 
well-beloved of my heart, were not on this 
occasion free from blame towards your boy! 
Try then to make him such reparation as 
your kind maternal heart shall dictate!</p>

<p>Most willingly, cried she, her eyes filling 
with tears of tenderness; and she looked up 
to invite him to come down: mine and the 
boys’ followed in the same direction; when 
we beheld Ernest in a fixed erect position in 
the very centre of the palm-tree, which he 
had stripped of its crown, as motionless 
as if he had become a cabbage. The whole 
effect of this spectacle was irresistibly 
ludicrous; and accordingly the boys, in spite of 
the lecture I had that moment concluded, 
burst into an immoderate fit of laughter.</p>

<p>I now called out to Ernest: Do you mean, 
said I, to stay all night in your tree, or are 
you afraid to trust yourself with coming 
down?</p>

<p>Far from it, father, answered he; but I 
am engaged in preparing you here some good 
sauce for the cabbage, and the operation 
takes a longer time than I imagined: but 
have a little patience, and I will bring down 
something for you to drink to my health.</p>

<p>What can he mean? asked little Francis; 
I dare say he has found a fountain in the 
tree; do you know, papa, I have been 
thinking that this must be an enchanted forest, 
like those I have read about in my little 
books; perhaps some of those trees are all 
the time princes and princesses:—do you not 
think it very likely, brother Fritz? said the 
young innocent with so real and fearful a 
persuasion, that we all laughed heartily as 
we answered his question. His mother took 
him on her knee and explained to him the 
nature of a fairy-tale, while the scene for 
my own part strengthened me in the opinion 
that children should be told nothing but the 
truth.</p>

<p>By this time Ernest had finished his work, 
and was descending cautiously from the tree. 
When he reached the ground, he released 
the cocoa-shell from his button, held it 
delicately in one hand, while with the other 
he drew from his pocket a small bottle, and 
pulling out the cork he emptied the 
contents into the shell, and presented it to me, 
saying: Most gracious sovereign, permit 
your devoted cup-bearer to present you with 
a specimen of a new and choice beverage 
he has been so fortunate as to procure for 
you: may it be pleasing to your royal taste: 
it is called palmist-wine, and your faithful 
slave waits but your commands to obtain a 
larger supply!..... </p>

<p>My wife and the other boys looked on in 
astonishment. I was myself less surprised, 
having read accounts of this production in 
different books. I was, however, much 
gratified to owe the acquisition to the study and 
reflection of my young philosopher, as I now 
called Ernest. It is excellent, my boy, said 
I, and we shall unite in drinking it to your 
health, with sensations of gratitude and 
affection. This was accordingly done.</p>

<p>I then made some inquiries of Ernest, as 
to his previous knowledge of the tree and 
its properties; and he answered, that if he 
had been quite sure of these being the kind 
producing cabbage, he should sooner have 
ascended. I knew, continued he, that there 
was a sort of palm which bore a cabbage at 
the top; and while my brothers were 
getting up for the cocoa-nuts, I was looking 
about in hopes to find it, and presently I 
thought that the tree which had no 
cocoa-nuts was most likely to be the sort; and 
you see I was lucky, in my guess. He then 
related his expectation of finding some of 
our famous palm-wine also. When I had cut 
off the cabbage, said he, a quantity of juice 
issued from the place, which I tasted and 
found delicious: you know the rest, father, 
added he; and I have only to regret that I 
had not a larger bottle to receive it; but now 
that we know the means, we can obtain the 
liquor when we please.</p>

<p>A small quantity at a time, observed I, 
will always be best; for the juice, though so 
like to Champaign in flavour, and which 
would perhaps affect our heads as soon if 
we were to use it freely, would by 
to-morrow, like the cocoa-milk, be quite sour: as 
there are abundance of the trees, we can, as 
you say, procure the liquor at pleasure, only 
taking care to be moderate; for it is affirmed 
by writers on natural history, that if the 
cabbage at the top is cut off, the tree dies, and 
we should therefore in time destroy the 
species. There are other sorts of 
palm-trees besides those we have noticed; one in 
particular, which yields a kind of oil which 
burns whatever it is applied to; we shall 
perhaps meet with it. In the mean time, 
let us render thanks to Providence for the 
benefits he has bestowed.</p>

<p>It was now past noon; and as we had 
determined to pass the night in this 
enchanting spot, we began to think of forming some 
large branches of trees into a sort of hut, 
as is practised by the hunters in America, 
to shelter us from the dew and the coolness 
of the air, for we had dismissed our fears 
of the approach of wild-beasts, not having 
in so long a time been visited by any. I 
accordingly set to work; I had brought a piece 
of sail-cloth with me from Falcon’s Stream, and 
I drove some stakes into the ground, and 
covered them with it, filling the opening in the 
front with some branches I had cut for the 
purpose. While we were engaged in our work, 
which was nearly completed, we were suddenly 
roused by the loud braying of the ass, which 
we had left to graze at a distance but a short 
time before. As we approached nearer to 
the place, we saw him throwing his head in 
the air, and kicking and prancing about in 
a most extraordinary manner; and while we 
were thinking what could be the matter, he 
set off on a full gallop, leaving us in a state 
of astonishment at all we saw. 
Unfortunately, Turk and Porto, whom we sent after 
him, took the fancy of entering the 
plantation of the sugar-canes, while the ass had 
preferred the direction of the bamboos on 
the right. We began to fear the approach 
of some wild beast might have frightened 
the creature, and to think of assembling our 
fire-arms. In a little time the dogs returned, 
and showed no signs, by scenting the ground 
or otherwise, of any pursuit. I made a 
turn round the hut to see that all was well, 
and then sallied forth with Fritz and the two 
dogs in the direction the ass had taken, 
hoping the latter might be enabled to trace 
him by the scent; but the familiar creatures 
could not be made to understand our 
meaning; they lived habitually with the ass, and 
had no notion of the new reason for 
following him; so that they did no more than run 
from place to place for their amusement; and 
as night was coming on, I prudently gave up 
the pursuit and returned to my companions.</p>

<p>Fatigued, and vexed with the loss of the 
ass, which was so eminently useful to us, 
I entered the hut, which I found complete 
and provided with the necessary branches 
strewed on the ground for sleeping, and 
with some reeds for making a fire, which the 
freshness of the evening air rendered 
agreeable to all: it served us also for cooking our 
supper; and after it had been partaken by 
us all, we were glad to lie down upon the 
branches and enjoy the blessing of sleep. 
When all was safe, I watched and replenished 
the fire till midnight, rather from habit than 
the fear of wild beasts, and then took 
possession of the little corner assigned me near 
my slumbering companions.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap26" id="chap26" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER XXVI.<br/>
<small><em>A new country discovered.—The troop of 
buffalos; a precious acquisition.</em></small></h2>

<p><span class="smcap">The</span> following morning found us all in good 
health, and thankful for the Divine protection 
we had enjoyed. We breakfasted on some 
milk from the cow, some boiled potatoes, 
and a small portion of Dutch cheese, and 
formed during our meal the plan of the 
business for the day: we had in vain hoped 
that night and our bright fire would bring 
back the fugitive; we had therefore no 
resource but to depend upon our own exertions 
for recovering him. It was accordingly decided 
that one of the boys and myself, attended 
by the two dogs, should seek him in every 
direction through the bamboo plantation; 
and if we should not succeed in finding him, 
I was to return to the hut, where I knew my 
wife and the other boys would have been 
employed in cutting sugar-canes and 
collecting a provision of the different articles we 
had met with, preparatory to our return the 
following day to Falcon’s Stream. As I was 
to take both the dogs, it seemed but 
reasonable that I should leave the two eldest boys 
to protect little Francis and his mother, and 
to take for my own escort the agile Jack, 
who was almost beside himself with joy at 
this determination.</p>

<p>We took then our hatchets, our fire-arms, 
a little saw for the cocoa-nuts we might 
happen to find, and began our course with the 
first dawn of the morning. We soon 
reached the bamboo plantation, which we entered, 
preceded by the dogs, and found means, 
though not without difficulty, to force 
ourselves along its intricate entanglements. 
After the most exhausting fatigue, and when 
we were on the point of relinquishing all 
further hope, we discovered the print of the 
ass’s hoofs on the soil, which inspired us 
with new ardour in the pursuit. After 
spending a whole hour in further endeavours, we 
at length, on reaching the skirts of the 
plantation, perceived the sea in the distance, and 
soon after found ourselves in an open space 
which bounded the great bay. A considerable 
river flowed into the bay at this place, and 
we perceived that the ridge of rocks which 
we had invariably observed to the right, 
extended to the shore, terminating in a 
perpendicular precipice, leaving only a narrow 
passage between the rocks and the river, 
which during every flux of the tide must 
necessarily be under water, but which at that 
moment was dry and passable. The 
probability that the ass would prefer passing by 
this narrow way, to the hazard of the water, 
determined us to follow in the same path: 
we had also some curiosity to ascertain what 
might be found on the other side of the rocks, 
for as yet we were ignorant whether they 
formed a boundary to our island, or divided 
it into two portions; whether we should see 
there, land, or water. We continued to 
advance, and at length reached a stream which 
issued foaming from a large mass of rock 
and fell in a cascade into the river; the bed 
of this stream was so deep, and its course so 
rapid, that we were a long time finding a part 
where it might be most practicable for us 
to cross. When we had got to the other 
side, we found the soil again sandy and 
mixed with a fertile kind of earth: in this 
place we no longer saw naked rock; and here 
we again discovered the print of the ass’s 
hoofs.</p>

<p>By observing with attention, we beheld 
with astonishment that there were the prints 
of the feet of other animals also, that they 
were somewhat different from those of the 
ass, and much larger. Our curiosity was so 
strongly excited by this appearance, that we 
resolved to follow the traces; and they 
conducted us to a plain at a great distance, which 
presented to our wondering eyes the 
exhilarating image of a terrestrial paradise. We 
ascended a hill which partly concealed from 
our view this delicious scene, and then with 
the assistance of the glass we looked down 
upon a range of country exhibiting every 
rural beauty that the mind could conceive, 
and where a profound tranquillity had 
seemed to take up its abode. To our right 
appeared the majestic wall of rocks which 
divided the island, some of which appeared to 
touch the heavens, others seemed to imprint 
the clouds with wild fantastic forms, while 
mists broken into pieces partially concealed 
their tops. To the left, a chain of gently 
rising hills, the long green verdure of which 
was tinged with blue, stretched as far as the 
eye could discern, and were interspersed at 
agreeable distances with little woods of 
palm-trees of every kind. The river we had crossed 
flowed in a serpentine course through this 
exquisite valley, presenting the idea of a broad 
floating silver ribbon, while its banks were 
adorned with reeds and various aquatic plants. 
I could with difficulty take my eyes from 
this enchanting spectacle, and I seated 
myself on the ground to contemplate and enjoy 
it at my leisure. Neither the plain nor 
on the hills was there the smallest trace of 
the abode of man, or of any kind of 
cultivation; it was every where a virgin soil in all 
its original purity; nothing endowed with 
life appeared to view, excepting a few birds 
which flew fearlessly around us, and a 
quantity of brilliantly coloured butterflies, which 
the eye frequently confounded with the 
different sorts of unknown flowers, which here 
and there diversified the surface of the soil.</p>

<p>By straining our eyes, however, as far as 
we could see, we thought we perceived at a 
great distance some specks upon the land, 
that seemed to be in motion. We hastened 
towards the spot; and as we drew nearer, to 
our inexpressible surprise discovered a group 
of animals, which in the assemblage 
presented something like the outline of a troop 
of horses or of cows; I observed them 
sometimes run up to each other, and then 
suddenly stoop to graze. Though we had not 
lately met with further traces of the ass, I was 
not entirely without hope of finding him 
among this group of animals. We 
accordingly drew near by a path we found in a 
plantation of reeds, that we might not give 
notice of our approach, being ignorant of the 
kind of animal we were about to meet. We 
had not gone far when the soil became so 
marshy, and the reeds entangled to such a 
degree, that we were obliged to get out of 
the plantation and wind along on the outside. 
We were soon near the animals, which we 
perceived consisted of rather a numerous 
troop of wild buffalos<sup><a id="note14text"/><a href="#note14" class="pginternal">14</a></sup>. This animal is 
formed at first sight to inspire the beholder with 
terror; it is endowed with an extraordinary 
degree of strength, and two or three of them 
were capable of destroying us in a moment, 
should they feel the desire of attacking us. 
My alarm was so great, that I remained for 
a few moments fixed to the spot like a 
statue. By good luck the dogs were far 
behind us, and the buffalos having never 
beheld the face of man, gave no sign of fear 
or of displeasure at our approach; they stood 
perfectly still, with their large round eyes 
fixed upon us in astonishment; those which 
were lying down got up slowly, but not 
one among them seemed to have any hostile 
disposition towards us. The circumstance 
of the dogs’ absence was most likely, on this 
occasion, the means of our safety, for on the 
least demonstration from these, no doubt the 
fierce animals would instantly have fallen 
upon us. As it was, we had time to draw 
back quietly and prepare our fire-arms. It 
was not, however, my intention to make use 
of them in any way but for defence, being 
sensible that we were not strong enough for 
the encounter, and recollecting also to have 
read that the sound of a gun drives the 
buffalo to a state of desperation. I therefore 
thought only of retreating; and with my poor 
Jack, for whom I was more alarmed than 
for myself, was proceeding in this way, when 
unfortunately Turk and Ponto ran up to us, 
and we could see were noticed by the 
buffalos. The animals instantly, and 
altogether, set up such a roar, as to make our 
nerves tremble with the shock of so terrible 
a noise; they struck their horns and their 
hoofs upon the ground, which they tore up 
by pieces and scattered in the air. I with 
horror foresaw the moment when 
confounding us with the dogs, which no doubt they 
mistook for jackals, they would seize upon 
and tear us to pieces. Our brave Turk and 
Ponto, fearless of danger, ran among the 
troop in spite of all our efforts to detain them, 
and according to their manner of attacking, 
laid hold of the ears of a young buffalo which 
happened to be standing a few paces nearer 
to us than the rest; and though the creature 
began a tremendous roar and motion with 
his hoofs, they held him fast, and were 
dragging him towards us. Thus hostilities had 
commenced; and unless we could resolve to 
abandon the cause of our valiant defenders, 
we were now forced upon the measure of 
open war, which, considering the strength 
and number of the enemy, wore a face of the 
most pressing and inevitable danger. Our 
every hope seemed now to be in the chance 
of the terror the buffalos would feel at the 
noise of our musketry, which for the first 
time would assail their organs, and perhaps 
excite them to flight. With, I must confess, 
a palpitating heart and trembling hands, we 
fired both at the same moment: the buffalos, 
terrified by the sound and by the smoke, 
remained for an instant motionless, as if struck 
by a thunderbolt, and then one and all 
betook themselves to flight with such 
incredible rapidity that they were soon beyond the 
reach of our sight. We heard their loud 
roaring from a considerable distance, which 
by degrees subsided into silence, and we 
were left with only one of their terrific 
species near us; this one, a female, was no 
doubt the mother of the young buffalo 
which the dogs had seized and still kept a 
prisoner; she had drawn near on hearing its 
cries, and had been wounded by our guns, 
but not killed; the creature was in a furious 
state: after a moment’s pause, she took aim 
at the dogs, and with her head on the ground, 
as if to guide her by the scent, was advancing 
in her rage, and would have torn them to 
pieces, if I had not prevented her by firing 
upon her with my double-barrelled gun, and 
thus putting an end to her existence.</p>

<p>It was only now that we began to breathe. 
A few moments before, death, in the most 
horrible and inevitable form, seemed to stare 
us in the face! But now we might hope that 
every danger was over! I was enchanted 
with the behaviour of my boy, who, instead 
of giving way to fears and lamentations, as 
other lads of his age would probably have 
done, had stood all the time in a firm posture 
by my side, and had fired with a steady aim 
in silence. I bestowed freely on him the 
commendation he had so well deserved, and 
made him sensible how necessary it is in 
times of danger to preserve a presence of 
mind, which in many cases is of itself 
sufficient to effect the sought-for deliverance. But 
I had not time for a long discourse. The 
young buffalo still remained a prisoner with 
his ears in the mouths of the dogs, and the 
pain occasioned him to be so furious that I 
was fearful he might do them some injury.</p>

<p>I therefore determined to advance and give 
them what assistance I might find practicable. 
To say the truth, I scarcely knew in what 
way to effect this. The buffalo, though 
young, was strong enough to revenge 
himself, if I were to give the dogs a sign to let 
go his ears. I had the power of killing him 
with a pistol at a stroke; but I had a great 
desire to preserve him alive, and to tame him, 
that he might be a substitute for the ass, 
which we now had no hope of recovering.</p>

<p>I found myself altogether in a perplexing 
state of indecision, when Jack suddenly and 
unexpectedly interposed a most effective 
means for accomplishing my wishes. He 
had his string with balls in his pocket; he 
drew it out hastily, and making a few steps 
backward, he threw it so skilfully as to 
entangle the buffalo completely, and throw 
him down. As I could then approach him 
safely, I tied his legs by two and two 
together with a very strong cord; the dogs 
released his ears, and from this moment we 
considered the buffalo as our own. Jack 
was almost mad with joy. What a 
magnificent creature! How much better than the 
ass he will look, harnessed to the cart! How 
my mother and the boys will be surprised 
and stare at him as we draw near! repeated 
he many and many times.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Ah hah! What, you already 
fancy him exactly to your wishes, Jack; 
already you have harnessed him to the loaded cart, 
while for my part I have not yet been able to 
conceive a means for even removing him from 
this place! Will you carry him upon your 
back?</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—If I were Sampson or Hercules 
I would most willingly; but, father, he will 
be able to walk if we untie his legs.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—And if we bid him do so, you 
think he will implicitly obey us?</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—The dogs would make him get 
on.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—And the buffalo might kill the 
dogs, Jack, and then turn back at a full 
gallop:—on reflection, the best way I think will 
be to tie his two fore-legs together, so tight 
that he cannot run, and loose enough for him 
to walk, as they do to mischievous horses: I 
will assist the scheme by trying a method 
which is practised in Italy for subduing the 
buffalo; you will think it somewhat cruel, 
but the success will be certain; it shall 
afterwards be our study to make him amends 
by the kindest care and treatment. Hold 
you the cord which confines his legs with all 
your strength, that he may not be able to 
move:—I then called Turk and Ponto, and 
made each again take hold of the ears of 
the animal, who was now keeping his head 
quite still; I took from my pocket a sharp 
and pointed knife, and held a piece of string 
in my hand in readiness; I placed myself 
before the buffalo, and taking hold of his 
snout, I made a hole in his nostril, into which 
I quickly inserted the string, which I 
immediately tied so closely to a tree, that the 
animal was prevented from the least motion of 
the head which might have inflamed the 
wound and increased his pain. I drew off 
the dogs the moment the operation was 
performed. The creature, thus rendered furious, 
would have run away, but the stricture of 
the legs and the pain in the nostril prevented 
it. The first attempt I made to pull the 
cord, found him docile and ready to 
accommodate his motions to our designs, and I 
perceived that we might now begin our 
march. I left him for a short time to make 
some other preparations.</p>

<p>I was unwilling to leave so fine a prey as 
the dead buffalo behind us: I therefore, 
after considering what was to be done, began 
by cutting out the tongue, which I sprinkled 
with some of the salt we had in our provision-bag: 
I next took off the skin from the four 
feet, taking care not to tear it in the 
operation. I remembered that the Americans 
use these skins, which are of a soft and 
flexible quality, as boots and shoes, and I 
considered them as precious articles. I lastly 
cut some of the flesh of the animal with the 
skin on, and salted it, and abandoned the 
rest to the dogs, as a recompense for the 
valour of their behaviour, and I then repaired 
to the river to wash myself after the 
performance of these butcher-like employments.</p>

<p>We now seated ourselves under the shade 
of a large tree; and as we ate the remaining 
portion of our provisions, amused ourselves 
with an animated review of the scene which 
had been passing. Our dogs were no less 
busily employed in greedily devouring the 
flesh of the buffalo.</p>

<p>As we were not disposed to leave the spot 
in a hurry, I desired Jack to take the saw 
and cut down a small quantity of the reeds, 
which from their enormous size might 
hereafter be of use to us. We set to work, but 
I observed that he took pains to choose the 
smallest.—What shall we do, said I, with 
these small-sized reeds? You are thinking, I 
presume, of nothing better than providing a 
bag-pipe to announce a triumphal arrival to 
our companions! You are mistaken, father, 
answered Jack; I am thinking rather of 
some candlesticks to present to my mother, 
who will set so high a value on them!</p>

<p>This is a good thought, my boy, said I, 
tapping him on the shoulder, I am well 
pleased both with the kindness and the 
readiness of your invention, and I will give you 
my assistance in trying to empty the reeds 
without breaking them; if we should not 
succeed, at least we know where to provide 
ourselves with more. I now helped him to 
choose some reeds, and soon after we set 
out on our return home.</p>

<p>We had so many and such heavy articles 
to remove, that I did not hesitate to dismiss, 
for that day, all thoughts of looking further 
for the ass, that we might return the sooner 
to our companions to relieve any uneasiness 
they might have felt at our long stay, and 
also to be myself satisfied respecting their 
safety during our absence. I began now to 
think of untying the young buffalo; and on 
approaching him, perceived with pleasure 
that he was asleep, which afforded me a 
proof that his wound was not extremely painful. 
When I awaked him he gave a start as 
I began to pull him gently with the string; 
but he afterwards seemed to forget his pain, 
and followed me without resistance. I 
fastened another string to his horns, and led him 
on by drawing both together; and he 
performed the journey with little inconvenience, 
and with so unexpected a docility, that to 
ease ourselves of a part of the heavy burdens 
we had to carry, we even ventured on the 
measure of fastening the bundles of reeds 
upon his back, and upon these we laid the 
salted pieces of the buffalo. The creature did 
not seem aware that he was carrying a load; 
he followed in our path, as before, and thus on 
the first day of our acquaintance he rendered 
us an essential service.</p>

<p>In a short time we found ourselves once 
more at the narrow passage between the 
torrent and the precipice of the rocks, which 
I have already mentioned. Near this spot, 
we met with a large jackal, who on 
perceiving us, slunk away, but was stoutly pursued 
by our brave dogs, who overtook him at the 
entrance of a cavern, and forced him to give 
them battle. The fight, however, was 
unequal; the dogs were two to one, besides 
being protected by their pointed collars, 
which enabled them to resist the most skilful 
attacks of the enemy. When we got up to 
them, the jackal was already killed. On 
examining our prey, we found it was a 
female, which from appearances had lately 
brought forth young, and we therefore 
concluded that she was going to suckle them in 
the cavern, where no doubt they lay 
concealed. Jack would instantly have entered 
to search for them; but I prevented him, 
from the apprehension that the male might 
also be there for the purpose of guarding 
them. I accordingly used the precaution of 
shooting off my piece into the dark 
profundity which presented itself, when finding all 
quiet, I gave him leave to enter, being 
myself both proud and gratified by every proof 
he gave of personal courage.</p>

<p>For some moments after entering the 
cavern, the complete darkness which prevailed 
prevented him from seeing any thing around 
him; but when his eyes had become 
accustomed to it, he discerned in a corner a litter 
of young jackals: the dogs who accompanied 
had before discovered them by the smell; they 
flew upon the creatures without mercy, and 
with the exception of one, which Jack found 
means to preserve, put an end to their 
existence. He came out of the cavern with the 
young jackal in his arms, asking if he might 
have leave to rear it as Fritz had done his 
monkey; and to this I made no objection, 
being unwilling to refuse to one of my 
children what I had granted to another; besides 
that it appeared to me that nothing could be 
so cruel as to kill the innocent little being in 
cold blood, or to leave it there to perish. 
I also felt the inclination to make an 
experiment on the effects and power of education, 
and to observe if it should be possible to 
succeed in taming him in such a degree as to 
obtain in consequence a race of good running 
dogs; at all events it seemed worth while to 
convince ourselves by the experiment. Jack 
therefore obtained leave to keep him, and 
could scarcely express the joy he felt: he 
pressed the animal to his bosom and 
devoured it with kisses, and promised to bestow 
upon him so faultless an education, that he 
should become the gentlest and most 
engaging little creature in the world.</p>

<p>We now left the cavern. I had fastened 
the young buffalo to a tree near the cascade 
without remarking of what species it might 
be; when I went to release him, I saw that 
it was a kind of small palm-tree, and on 
looking about me I observed also some other 
kinds of the palm which I had not before 
met with<sup><a id="note15text"/><a href="#note15" class="pginternal">15</a></sup>. One of the kinds I now 
remarked was from ten to twelve feet in height; 
its leaves were armed with thorns, and it bore 
a fruit resembling a small cucumber in form, 
but which at this time was immature, so 
that we could not taste it. The second, which 
was smaller, was also thorny; it was now in 
blossom, and had no fruit. I suspected that 
the first of these was the <i>little royal palm</i>, 
sometimes called <i>awiva</i>, or <i>Adam’s needle</i>; 
and the other, the <i>dwarf palm</i>. I resolved 
to avail myself of both for further fortifying 
my enclosure at Tent-House, and also to 
protect the outer side of the narrow pass 
immediately over the torrent of the cascade. 
I determined to return and plant a line of 
them there, as close to each other as the 
consideration of their growth would allow; for 
my intention, of course, was to effect this by 
means of the young shoots which presented 
themselves in great abundance; we also 
hoped by that time to find their fruit ripe, 
and to ascertain their kind.</p>

<p>We repassed the river in safety, and 
accompanied by the agreeable noise of its 
foaming cascades, we regained the hazardous and 
narrow pass at the turn of the rocks. We 
however proceeded with caution, and finding 
ourselves safe on the other side, we thought 
of quickening our pace to arrive the sooner 
at the hut: we accordingly had the happiness 
to rejoin our friends before the close of the 
evening; and though we were somewhat 
fatigued, yet in other respects we were well 
and satisfied with the success of our various 
undertakings. We were received with the 
liveliest demonstrations of joy, and, as usual, 
a thousand questions asked at once. Where, 
how and where did we procure such 
interesting creatures as the buffalo and the golden 
fox? Shall we see the precipice and the 
cascade at the end of the wall of rocks?—Questions 
were so rapidly proposed to us, that we 
were obliged to demand on our parts the 
necessary time for answering them. This being 
granted, the story of our different adventures 
served for the amusement of the evening: 
conversing happily together concerning them, 
we enjoyed the sober meal which had been 
prepared for us; and having warmed 
ourselves by the fire, we retired in thankfulness 
to rest.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap27" id="chap27" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER XXVII.<br/>
<small><em>The Malabar eagle, and sago manufactory.</em></small></h2>

<p><span class="smcap">My</span> wife the next morning began the 
conversation. She told me the children had been 
good and diligent, that all of them had 
ascended Cape Disappointment together, that 
they had gathered wood and made some 
torches for the night; and, what I could 
scarcely think possible, they had ventured to fell 
an immense palm-tree, to the top of which 
Ernest had again climbed for amusement; 
and afterwards they undertook the laborious 
and perilous work of bringing it down, which 
they also happily executed. This monarch 
of the forests lay prostrate on the ground, 
and covered a space of at least seventy feet 
in length. To effect their purpose, Ernest 
had got up the tree a second time, with a 
long rope which he fastened tight to the top 
of it. As soon as he had come down again, 
he and Fritz worked with the axe and saw, 
to cut it through. When it was nearly 
divided, they cautiously managed its fall with 
the rope, and in this manner they succeeded. 
But during their excursion and labours, a 
somewhat unfortunate visit took place. A 
numerous group of monkeys had found their 
way to the hut: every drop of the palm-wine 
we had preserved in our gourd-shells, these 
intrusive gentry contrived to swallow; they 
had upset and thrown about all the potatoes, 
stolen the cocoa-nuts, and disturbed, nay 
even almost wholly demolished, the order of 
the branches and other contrivances we had 
recourse to for our hut; so that my children 
on their return were employed a full hour 
in repairing the damage effected by those 
mischievous creatures. Fritz was in high 
spirits with the luck he had met with and 
secured; he brought me on his wrist a young 
bird of prey, of the most beauteous plumage; 
he had taken it from a nest in one of the 
rocks near the hill at Cape Disappointment. 
Very young as the bird was, it had already 
all its feathers, though they had not yet 
received their full colouring; but it was 
evidently not an European eagle, and I 
supposed it to be the beautiful eagle of 
Malabar<sup><a id="note16text"/><a href="#note16" class="pginternal">16</a></sup>. I viewed it with the admiration it was 
entitled to:—meeting with one of these birds 
is thought a lucky omen; and as this species 
of eagle is neither large nor expensive in its 
food, I was desirous to train it like a falcon 
to pursue smaller birds. Fritz had already 
covered its eyes and fastened the foot with 
packthread; I advised him to hold it often, 
and for a length of time, on his hand, and 
to tame it with hunger as falconers do.</p>

<p>When we had all finished our narratives, 
my wife began her usual lamentations upon 
the subject of so many living and devouring 
animals being brought to her, and which she 
said must in no long time, from the food 
they required, become burthensome to us. 
I consoled her with some difficulty, by 
observing that the buffalo would be a good 
substitute for the ass; and I established as an 
invariable law, that he who wished to have a 
useful animal in his service, should also have 
the care of keeping it. It is a cruelty, said I, 
to deprive a feeling creature of its liberty, 
for a transient pleasure or amusement to 
ourselves, and to make it suffer; we ought, on 
the contrary, to recompense it for the 
privation it would have to endure, by kind 
treatment and feeding it well. I declare then, that 
he who neglects the animals committed to 
his charge shall no longer be thought worthy 
of having so important a care intrusted to 
him. This warning intimidated my hearers; 
for man is a creature so formed for society, 
and so dependent upon it for his comforts 
and content, that, when by accidents deprived 
of intercourse with his own species, he 
attaches himself to the brute creation with 
even warm affection. This satisfied the kind 
temper of my wife; and as she was herself 
very partial to animals, she promised her 
sons to take the charge of one and all of the 
animals upon herself whenever their absence 
from home should render this necessary. We 
communicated to each other our hopes that 
such attentions would form them to more 
active, regular, and constant habits of 
affection and mildness towards us. I have said, 
I frequently noticed that treating animals with 
kindness tends to produce the benign effects 
I have been speaking of.</p>

<p>I next ordered a fire to be lighted and a 
quantity of green wood to be put on it, for 
the purpose of raising a thick smoke, over 
which I meant to hang the buffalo meat I had 
salted, to dry and preserve it for our future 
use; and this was done accordingly. We 
fixed pieces of it on long forked poles. I cut 
away what appeared not quite fresh, and 
saw our little eagle feast upon it voraciously. 
The young buffalo was beginning to browse, 
but the cow’s milk was still given it; and 
Jack succeeded in making his little jackal 
drink some occasionally, likewise. We added 
to the buffalo’s meal, whose appetite we found 
to be enormous, a heap of sliced potatoes, 
the whole of which he greedily devoured; 
and this led us to conclude that the pain 
from the wound in his nose was subsided, 
and that he would soon become tame.</p>

<p>Supper-time was now arrived, and we did 
not fail to acquit ourselves at it, as well, to 
say the least, as our cattle, seasoning our 
repast with lively anecdotes and affectionate 
conversation. The combat with the buffalos 
excited much raillery; but we saw that it was 
no less intended for compliment also, nor 
was our design to make boots and shoes of 
their hoofs passed over in silence; the 
candle-moulds too came in for a share in these 
their playful attacks upon what they called 
the wonderful feats we had performed. Jack 
persisted in defending himself, and this he 
did so cleverly as to point the laughter at the 
adversary. The arrangements for this night 
were much the same as for the preceding. 
We left our meat suspended over the smoke 
of our fires during our sleep; we tied the 
young buffalo by the side of the cow, and 
were pleased to see them agree and bid fair 
to live in peace together. The dogs were 
set upon the watch. Fritz resolved to go to 
bed with his eaglet fastened on his wrist, and 
its eyes still bound: it remained in this state 
throughout the night without disturbing its 
master. The time of repose elapsed so 
calmly that none of us awoke to keep in the 
torchlights, which now for the first time the 
industry of the boys had supplied us with, and 
we did not get up till after sun-rise. 
Directly after a moderate breakfast I chaunted the 
accustomed summons for our setting out; but 
my young ones had some projects in their 
heads, and neither they nor their mother 
were just then in the humour to obey me.</p>

<p>Let us reflect a little first, said my wife: 
as we had so much difficulty in felling the 
palm-tree, would it not be a pity to lose our 
labour by leaving it in this place? It is the 
one from which Ernest cut out the famous 
cabbage: as it was thus deprived of future 
growth and bearing fruit, we wished to reap 
benefit from it in another way; Ernest assures 
me it is a sago-tree; if so, the pith would be 
an excellent ingredient for our soups. I 
request you will examine it, and let us see if in 
any way we can turn it to account.</p>

<p>I found she was in the right: but in that 
case it was necessary to employ a day in the 
business, since to open from one end to the 
other the trunk of a tree sixty feet long was 
not a trivial task. I assented however with 
some readiness, as, independent of the use of 
the farinaceous pith, I could, by emptying it, 
obtain two handsome and large troughs for 
the conveyance of water from Jackal’s river 
to my wife’s kitchen garden at Tent House, 
and thence to my new plantations of trees.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—One of the halves, father, will 
answer that purpose, and the other will serve 
as a conduit for our little stream from 
Falcon’s Nest into my pretty bason lined with 
tortoise-shell; we then shall be constantly 
regaled with the agreeable view of a fountain 
close to our dwelling:—I fancy it now before 
my eyes and that I see its course. And I, 
for my part, said Ernest, long for a sight of 
the sago formed into small grains as I have 
seen it in Europe. Can you, father, make it 
up into that sort of composition?</p>

<p>With your help I think I could. Come, 
let us set up a famous manufactory of 
vermicelli and macaroni! and what other 
delicacy shall I say?</p>

<p><i>Francis.</i>—Oh! yes, papa, I intreat you, 
macaroni! it is so nice, I will assist in 
making that.</p>

<p>Little glutton! answered I, you would, 
I imagine, rather assist in eating up all we can 
make. I do not however promise that our 
manufactory will produce such good and well 
made articles as those of Genoa and Naples; 
but let us first make the sago-paste, and 
afterwards work it up for such purposes of 
magnificence as in our profound wisdom we 
may afterwards be led to desire. Have we 
not one of our manioc graters here at hand?</p>

<p>Yes certainly, replied Ernest. We were 
even thinking of making some of them here 
for our amusement, but we found we were 
not likely to want employment: and he 
accordingly scampered away to fetch it me, 
while the rest crowded round me. Patience, 
children, patience, exclaimed I; we are not 
yet in readiness to use it, many other 
matters are previously requisite: in the first place 
you must assist me to raise this palm-tree 
from the ground, and it must be done by 
fixing at each end two small cross pieces or 
props to support it; to split it open as it lies, 
would be a work of too much labour: this 
done, I shall want several wooden wedges to 
keep the cleft open while I am sawing it, and 
afterwards a sufficient quantity of water. 
There is the difficulty, said my wife; our 
Falcon’s Stream is too far off, and we have 
not yet discovered any spring in the 
neighbourhood of this place.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—That is of no consequence, 
mother; I have seen hereabouts so great an 
abundance of the plants which contain 
water, that we need not be at a loss; for they 
will fully supply us, if I could only contrive 
to get vessels enough to hold it.</p>

<p>We now produced the enormous reeds 
we had brought home, which being hollow 
would answer the purpose of vessels: and as 
some time was required to draw off the water 
from such small tubes, he and Francis at once 
set to work; they cut a number of the plants, 
which they placed slantingly over the brim 
of a vessel, and whilst that was filling they 
were preparing another. The rest of us got 
round the tree, and with our united strength 
we soon succeeded in raising the heavy trunk, 
and the top of it was then sawed off. We 
next began to split it through the whole 
length, and this the softness of the wood 
enabled us to effect with little trouble. We 
soon reached the pith or marrow that fills 
up the middle of the trunk the whole of its 
length. When divided, we laid one half on 
the ground, and we pressed the pith together 
with our hands so as to make temporary room 
for the pith of the other half of the trunk, 
which rested still on the props. We wished 
to empty it entirely, that we might employ it 
as a kneading-trough, leaving merely enough 
of the pith at both ends to prevent a running 
out, and then we proceeded to form our paste. 
We had fastened the grater at one end, for 
the purpose of squeezing the paste through 
the small holes as soon as it was made.</p>

<p>My young manufacturers with stripped 
arms joyfully fell to work, and really 
surpassed my expectation; they brought water 
in succession and poured it gradually into the 
trough, whilst we mixed it with the flour. 
In a short time the paste appeared sufficiently 
fermented; I then made an aperture at the 
bottom of the grater on its outside, and 
pressed the paste strongly with my hand; the 
farinaceous parts passed with ease through 
the small holes of the grater, and the ligneous 
parts blended with particles of wood, which 
did not pass, were thrown aside in a heap, 
in the hope that mushrooms, <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr> might spring 
from them. My boys were in readiness to 
receive in the reed vessels, what fell from the 
grater, and conveyed it directly to their 
mother, whose business was to spread out the 
small grains in the sun upon sail cloth for 
the purpose of drying them. The subsequent 
process was the making of vermicelli, by 
working up the paste into a thicker 
consistence and pressing it more forcibly against 
the perforations of the grater; they passed 
through in slender rolls of different lengths, 
which were quickly dried by means of a 
gentle fire. To remunerate our toil my wife 
promised to dress us an excellent dish of this 
new manufacture, with some Dutch cheese, 
similar to Italian macaroni. Thus we 
procured a good supply of a wholesome and 
pleasant food; and should have had a larger 
stock of it, had we not been restricted as to 
time; but the privilege of renewing the 
process at pleasure, by felling a sago-tree, 
added to some impatience to take home our two 
pretty conduits and employ them as proposed, 
prompted us to expedite the business. The 
paste which remained was thrown upon the 
mushroom-bed, and watered well to promote 
a fermentation.</p>

<p>We employed ourselves the remainder of 
the evening in loading the cart with our 
tools and the two halves of the tree. Night 
coming on, we retired to our hut, where we 
enjoyed our usual repose, and early next 
morning were ready to return to Falcon’s 
Stream. Our buffalo now commenced his 
service, yoked with the cow; he supplied 
the want of the ass, and was very tractable: 
it is true I led him by the cord which passed 
through his nose, and thus I restrained him 
within the bounds of his duty whenever he 
was disposed to deviate.</p>

<p>We returned the same way as we came, 
in order to load the cart with a provision of 
berries, wax, and elastic gum. I gave up 
looking for eggs this day, as I was very 
desirous to get back as soon as possible to 
Falcon’s Stream, to look after the beasts we 
had left there. I sent forward Fritz and 
Jack as a van-guard, with one of the dogs; 
they were to cut a commodious and secure 
road through the bushes for our cart. The 
two water conductors, which were very long, 
produced numerous difficulties and 
somewhat impeded our progress. My sons well 
performed their task, and we reached with 
tolerable speed and without any accident 
the wax and gum trees, where we halted to 
place our sacks filled with berries in the 
cart. The elastic gum had not yielded as 
much as I expected, from the too rapid 
thickening caused by an ardent sun, and an 
incrustation formed over the incision: we 
obtained however about a quart, which 
sufficed for the experiment of the impenetrable 
boots I had so long desired.</p>

<p>We set out again, still preceded by our 
pioneers, who cleared the way for us through 
the little wood of guavas. Suddenly we 
heard a dreadful noise which came from our 
van-guard, and beheld Fritz and Jack 
hastening towards us. I began now to fear a tiger 
or panther was near at hand, or had perhaps 
attacked them. Turk began to bark so 
frightfully, and Ponto running up to him joined in 
so hideous a yell, that I prepared myself, 
not without terror, for a bloody conflict. I 
advanced at the head of my troop, who 
expressed their determination to follow me 
to the assistance of those I thought in 
danger, and my high-mettled dogs ran furiously 
up to a thicket, where they stopped, and 
with their noses to the ground and almost 
breathless strove to enter it: I had no doubt 
some terrible animal was lurking there; and 
Fritz, who had seen it through the leaves, 
confirmed my suspicion; he said it was 
about the size of the young buffalo, and that 
its hair was black and shaggy. I was going 
to fire at it promiscuously in the thicket, 
when Jack, who had thrown himself on his 
face on the ground to have a better view of 
the animal, got up in a fit of laughter—It 
is only, exclaimed he, dame pig, that has 
played us another trick—our old sow, who is 
never tired of playing off her tricks upon us. 
He had hardly spoken, when the grunting of 
the concealed monster justified the assertion 
made by Jack. Half vexed, half 
laughing, we broke into the midst of the thicket, 
where in reality we found our sow stretched 
supinely on the earth, but by no means in a 
state of dreary solitude; the good matron had 
round her seven little creatures, which had 
been littered a few days, and were sprawling 
about contending with each other for the best 
place near their mother for a hearty meal. This 
discovery gave us considerable satisfaction, and 
we all greeted the corpulent creature, who 
seemed to recollect and welcome us with a 
sociable kind of grunting, while she licked 
her young without any ceremony or show of 
fear. We rewarded her docility with potatoes, 
sweet acorns, and manioc bread; for the 
boys one and all readily consented to go 
without themselves for her accommodation: they 
felt obliged to her for the new family she 
had given them, and anticipated ideally the 
pleasure of beholding a nice crisp suckling 
pig before the fire. But their mother 
censured their greedy impatience and cruelty, 
in already thinking about roasting the poor 
animals on their very entrance into life. A 
general consultation took place—should this 
swinish family be left where we found it, or 
conveyed to Falcon’s Stream? Fritz voted 
for their being all left to run at large like 
the wild boars in Europe, that he might have 
the sport of hunting them. My wife, like a 
good housewife, proposed that two of them 
at least should be domesticated for 
breeding; and as to the old sow, as she was 
always running away, it would be better to 
kill her when done suckling, and she would 
afford a large provision of salt meat;—and 
her opinion was adopted. For the moment 
they were suffered to keep quiet possession 
of their retreat; we resolved to rear three of 
them, and allow the other four to take to the 
woods, where they might be hunted if they 
injured our plantations.</p>

<p>We then, so many adventures ended, 
pursued our road to Falcon’s Stream, and 
arrived there in safety and content;—so true 
it is, that home is always dear and sacred to 
the heart, and anticipated with delight. All 
was in due order, and our domestic animals 
welcomed our return in their own jargon and 
manner, but which did not fail to be 
expressive of their satisfaction in seeing us again. 
We threw them some of the food we knew 
them to be the most partial to, which they 
greedily accepted, and then voluntarily went 
back to their usual stand. It was necessary 
to practise a measure dictated by prudence, 
which was to tie up again the buffalo and 
jackal, to inure them by degrees to 
confinement; and the handsome Malabar eagle 
shared the same fate: Fritz deemed himself 
remarkably clever in placing it near the 
parrot on the root of a tree; he fastened it with 
a piece of packthread of sufficient length to 
allow it free motion, and uncovered its eyes: 
till then the bird had been tolerably quiet; 
but the instant it was restored to light, it 
fell into a species of rage that surprised us; 
it proudly raised its head; its feathers 
became ruffled, and its eye-balls seemed to 
whirl in their orbits and dart out vivid 
lightnings. All the poultry was terrified and 
fled; but the poor luckless parrot was too 
near the sanguinary creature to escape. 
Before we were aware of the danger, it was 
seized and mangled by the formidable 
hooked beak of the eagle in an almost 
inconceivably short space of time. Fritz vented 
his anger in loud, severe, and passionate 
reproaches: he would have killed the murderer 
on the spot, had not Ernest run up and 
entreated him to spare its life: Parrots, said 
he, we shall find in plenty, but never 
perhaps so beauteous, so magnificent a bird as 
this eagle, which, as father observes, we may 
train for hawking. You may too blame 
only yourself, continued Ernest, for the 
parrot’s death;—why did you uncover the eagle’s 
eyes? If you had consulted me, I could 
have told you that falconers keep them 
covered six weeks, till they are completely 
tamed. But now, brother, let me for a 
certain time have the care of him, let me 
manage the unruly fellow; he shall soon, in 
consequence of the methods I shall use, be 
as tractable and submissive as a new-born 
puppy; say then that you consent, I will 
pledge myself you shall not be disappointed.</p>

<p>Yes, forsooth, said Fritz, but I shall not 
give you my eagle neither; it is mine, and 
I will not part with it to anyone; I can 
bring it up myself, only tell me how; it 
will be very unkind not to teach me the 
way—Father, is not Ernest very ungenerous 
to keep his management of eagles a secret, 
and wanting to bring it up himself?—Ernest, 
by the by, had signified his refusal by a 
shake of the head.</p>

<p>Gently, gently, children, said I: Fritz, 
listen to a little moral fable. “A dog placed 
himself on a truss of straw, which he 
considered as his property. An ass and an ox 
extremely hungry entreated permission to 
eat some of it, as it could not serve him for 
food; but the surly selfish cur would not 
even suffer them to approach it. Envious 
animal, said the ox, <i>eat thy straw, or 
permit it to be eaten by another;</i> but the dog 
was deaf to their entreaties, and dismissed 
them with snarling selfishness.” Now tell 
me, boy, is not your conduct on this occasion 
similar to the selfish dog’s? You know not 
how to tame your eagle, you a few minutes 
ago would even have inflicted death upon it, 
and now you refuse to give it to Ernest, who 
promises to bring it up, because you are 
envious of his knowing more than you do: as 
he has reflected more than you on what 
he has read, it is but just he should wish to 
derive some advantage from his reading and 
knowledge; you cannot do less than make 
him a civil offer of something for his secret, 
if you persist in not resigning your eagle. 
Should Ernest after this, have the generosity 
to impart it without the reward, the greater 
will be his merit, and I shall be pleased with 
you both.</p>

<p>Right, father, replied Fritz briskly; well, 
I will give him my monkey if he chooses to 
have it.—An eagle is a more noble and 
heroical animal; as I found it, I mean to 
keep it; but you will teach me to tame it? 
What say you, Ernest? Do you accept my 
offer?</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—With all my heart; but I value 
the heroism you talk of, very little: I for my 
part prefer being learned; you shall be knight 
of the eagle if you think proper, and I your 
historiographer and poet. I will write a grand 
epic poem to record the splendid deeds of the 
knight and his eagle.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Poor jeering this, master Ernest! 
but, no matter; take the monkey, and teach 
me to tame my eagle: How shall I render it 
more docile and quiet?</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—I have read somewhere that 
the Caribs puff tobacco-smoke into the 
nostrils of the birds of prey and of the parrots 
they catch, until they are giddy and almost 
senseless;—this stupefaction over, they are 
no longer wild and untractable.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—And this is the great 
witchcraft! Tobacco-smoke! it was worth puffing 
off to be sure! Your secret is not 
equivalent to the property of my monkey, is it, 
Father?</p>

<p>Why not? If the bargain is fair, as I think 
it is, it should by all means hold good; if 
not, Ernest will not require any thing for 
useless counsel; but I have reason to think well 
of the method, and therefore approve of it. 
Bees may be stupefied in the same manner, 
so as to take them without resistance, or how 
could the honey-comb be obtained? The 
notion I assure you, boys, is far from bad.</p>

<p><i>Francis.</i>—Oh! then there is a way to 
hinder the naughty bees from stinging poor 
little boys who want just to taste their 
honey? Good papa, pray go and smoke 
awhile opposite that hole in the tree, and 
make these stinging gentry sleep long enough 
for us to take away at least half of their honey 
without being devoured by them.</p>

<p>Fritz having consented to the experiment, 
took some tobacco and a pipe, of which we 
had found plenty in the sailors’ chests, and began 
to smoke, at the same time gradually 
approaching the unruly bird. As soon as it was 
somewhat composed, he replaced the fillet 
over the eyes, and smoked close to its 
beak and nostrils so effectually, that it 
became motionless on the spot, and had the 
exact air of a stuffed bird. Fritz thought 
it dead, and was inclined to be angry with 
his brother; but I told him it would not 
hold on the perch if it were lifeless, and 
that its head alone was affected,—and so it 
proved. The favourite came to itself by 
degrees, and made no noise when its eyes were 
unbound; it looked at us with an air of 
surprise, but void of fury, and grew tamer 
and calmer every day. The monkey 
was adjudged unanimously to Ernest, who 
took possession of it the same evening, and 
made it lie down near him. We all passed 
an excellent night in our green castle, and 
in our good beds, which we returned to with 
abundant satisfaction.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap28" id="chap28" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER XXVIII.<br/>
<small><em>Origin of some European fruit-trees.—Bees.</em></small></h2>

<p><span class="smcap">We</span> commenced early the next day a 
business which we had long determined to 
engage in: it was to plant bamboos close to 
all the young trees, to support them 
effectually in their growth. We quitted our 
tree with great alertness, having our cart 
loaded with canes and a large pointed iron 
to dig holes in the ground. We left my 
wife this time with only her dear little 
Francis, requesting them to prepare us a 
plentiful dinner, and to include the palm-tree 
cabbage and the sago-macaroni mixed with 
some Dutch cheese; in addition to these 
performances, they volunteered the melting 
some of the wax berries for our store of 
candles.</p>

<p>We did not take the buffalo with us, as 
I wished to give it a day’s rest for its nose 
to heal up; the cow was sufficient for 
drawing the load of light bamboo canes. Before 
setting out, we gave the buffalo a few 
handfuls of salt, to ingratiate ourselves with our 
horned companion; and this treat pleased 
him so highly, that he showed by many signs 
his inclination of accompanying us; and to 
prevent this, we were compelled to fasten 
him securely till we were out of sight.</p>

<p>We began our work at the entrance of the 
avenue which we had formed, and nearest 
to Falcon’s Stream. The walnut, chesnut, 
and cherry-trees we had planted in a regular 
line and at equal distances, we found 
disposed to bend considerably to one side, 
seemingly as they had been directed by the wind. 
Being the strongest, I took the task of 
making holes with the implement, upon 
myself, which, as the soil was light, I easily 
performed, taking care to go deep enough to 
fix the stake firmly. In the mean time the 
boys selected the bamboos, cut them of 
equal lengths, and pointed the ends to go 
into the ground. When they were well 
fixed, we threw up the earth compactly 
about them, and fastened the saplings by 
the branches to them with some long, straight 
tendrils of a plant which we found near the 
spot. In the midst of our exertions we 
entered with much detail into a conversation 
respecting the culture of trees. Till then my 
boys had only thought of eating fruits, 
without giving themselves much trouble about 
their production; but now their curiosity 
was excited, and they questioned me so 
closely on the subject, that I was somewhat 
at a loss in answering them. I communicated 
however, with pleasure, all within my 
knowledge: I perceived that the occasion was 
particularly favourable for rendering my 
lessons instructive and truly profitable, as 
the occupation we were engaged in gave me 
an opportunity to illustrate the lesson by 
means of the objects before our eyes. I shall 
briefly relate the summary of our discourse, 
which may be of use to young persons 
designed for an agricultural life.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Are the young trees that we have 
recently planted, and just propped up, wild 
or cultivated?</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—A pretty question indeed! Do you 
imagine that trees are tamed like buffalos 
and eagles? You would perhaps teach them 
to stoop politely when we come to gather 
their fruit, to avoid giving us the trouble of 
reaching to their branches.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—You suppose, friend Jack, that 
your speech is very witty, while in reality it 
is only nonsense. Do you think then that 
all created beings are brought up alike? If 
so, papa should punish the first 
occurrence of ill behaviour in you, by passing 
a cord through your nose, like the buffalo, 
to render you more considerate and 
compliant.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—We should soon, if this plan 
were adopted, see brother Jack with a bridle 
round his neck.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—All of you, children, would be 
exposed to such discipline as this, if there 
were no other means: but the observation 
of Fritz is perfectly just; men are not brought 
up like brutes, nor are brutes trained like 
plants, though the education of all ever tends 
to the same end—that of subjecting the will 
to the yoke of necessity and duty, and to 
make them walk upright: for did not these 
trees bend to every wind till we raised and 
supported them. Every creature is capable of 
improvement, if not susceptible of perfection, 
that is to say, with care and cultivation, every 
being may become better, and acquire 
virtues and qualities which, left to himself and 
nature, he would be destitute of; thus I 
render our buffalo, and you your jackal, 
tame and manageable, by making them feel 
the power of man over brutes; thus I strive, 
my dear children, to lead you on towards 
perfection, by cultivating your understanding, 
giving you, as far as I am able, good lessons 
and good examples; so these trees, which 
at first were mere wild stocks, produced 
from kernels or seeds, and bearing only 
small imperfect fruits, have been made to 
produce those of an excellent quality by 
grafting on them a superior species. Come 
here, examine this branch; it is easy to see 
it has been inserted into this other branch; 
all the rest were lopped away, and this alone 
preserved; the whole of the sap or 
nutritious juice flowed then to this point, and 
thence diffused itself; and thus the wild 
sapling is become a fine fruitful tree, producing 
as good fruit as that from which the graft 
was taken.—Such is the process of ingrafting.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—There are many things in it I do 
not yet understand; I have often heard of 
the inoculation of trees—is that the same as 
ingrafting them?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Nearly so; to <i>inoculate</i> is, I 
believe, the appropriate term for the 
operation, and <i>graft</i> that for the branch, or part 
inserted. According to the different species 
of trees, different methods and seasons are 
chosen; different terms are also adopted; 
and when the first insertion fails, a second, 
and even a third attempt is made.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—Can good fruits be grafted on 
every kind of tree, such as firs, or oaks?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—No, my son; trees of an 
homogeneous kind must be selected.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—Ah! now that’s a fruit I am a 
stranger to; <i>homogeneous</i>—is it very good? 
are they to be found here? I long to taste 
them.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—It is not a fruit, my dear child: 
it is, I confess, rather too learned a word, 
which I was wrong to use without 
explanation. It is derived or comes from the Greek, 
and signifies <i>of the same nature, or bearing 
great similitude;</i> thus an apple, a pear, a 
quince-tree, may be ingrafted on each other, 
because their wood and their seeds are 
homogeneous or resemble each other. It is 
the same with a variety of fruits having 
stones and kernels; the cherry, plum, peach, 
and almond-tree: to attempt to graft any of 
these on a pine or oak, would be useless; 
so with the best education every man is 
not constituted to be learned, to form an 
artist or a general.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—You said, father, that the wild 
stocks or trees, produced only from seed, 
bear but indifferent fruits; how is it, then, 
with all those in our island—our good cocoas 
and guavas were not grafted, as no gardeners 
or other persons were here to perform the 
operation?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Your remark is just; but I spoke 
only of our fruit-trees in Europe, where, 
almost without exception, the fruits require to 
be meliorated by a better soil, ingrafting, and 
culture. No doubt kind Providence has 
meant to indemnify these burning climes for 
many inconveniences, in bestowing on them 
palm-trees and other agreeable fruits that 
grow spontaneously and without trouble or 
labour on the soil.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—I comprehend all this: yet one 
thing puzzles me; how were the scions and 
grafts of the best kinds first procured in 
Europe?</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—What a question! From those 
who had them, certainly.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—And what a reply! I answer. 
And where did those from whom they were 
obtained get them? I wish to know where 
the first branches of the best species were 
had, before any persons had undertaken the 
husbandry of trees, or thought of ingrafting 
them. All trees, I presume, were wild 
originally ..... </p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—Indeed! ...... What think you 
then of the terrestrial paradise? Do you not 
believe that excellent fruits of all kinds were 
there? And might not the scions and grafts 
you are so puzzled about, have been taken 
there to any number?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—My dear young pupil, if you had 
read the Bible with attention, you would 
have seen that our father Adam was driven 
out of the terrestrial paradise for having 
eaten of one of those goodly fruits, contrary 
to the positive prohibition of God; and as 
he and his wife Eve were then alone on the 
earth, none could go and take grafts in that 
beautiful garden, which moreover was not in 
Europe; therefore the inquiry of Ernest is 
just and sensible. Good fruit-trees are 
doubtless natives of some part of the earth, where 
they bear spontaneously, in their natural 
climate, as good fruits as those we raise in 
ours with care and art. Such trees were 
torn from their native soil when young, and 
transplanted into Europe, where, by the 
assiduous attentions of the gardener, they 
prospered, and furnished grafts for their 
multiplication; for the European climate is so 
little fitted to the natural production of good 
fruits, that the best tree, propagated from 
mere seed, soon resumes the wild state, and 
requires to be grafted. Gardeners usually 
collect a number of tender shoots or saplings 
in an inclosure, which they first raise by seed 
and afterwards ingraft; these inclosures are 
called nurseries, where such plants are 
purchased, and where all these shipped for our 
use were procured.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Do you know, father, the native 
country of all these trees?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Of most of them, I think. The 
vine I have ventured to plant near our tree 
at Falcon’s Stream, grows only in the 
temperate zone; it neither thrives in very cold 
countries nor under the torrid zone, though 
it generally prefers the south to the north. 
The vine is of antient date; for we find in 
the Bible that Noah was acquainted with the 
use of it. It seems then that the vine is a 
native of Asia Minor and Armenia; and it 
appears to have been brought at a very 
remote period into Egypt, Greece, and most 
parts of Europe. The fabulous accounts in 
mythology of Bacchus, relate, no doubt, to 
the propagation of the vine. Italy probably 
received it from the emigrant Greeks and 
from the Romans, who became masters of 
the known world; thence it was carried into 
Gaul, Spain, Germany, and those parts of 
Switzerland in which it promised to thrive: 
perhaps the Phoenicians too had previously 
transported it to some of the above 
mentioned countries.</p>

<p><i>The boys speaking together.</i>—And the 
apple, pear, chesnut, walnut, almond, peach, 
and mulberry-trees?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Patience, patience, prattlers! 
Can I tell you every thing in a breath? And 
pray speak one after the other, gentlemen.—Fruits 
with shells or pods, such as the nut, 
almond, and chesnut, generally called <i>glands</i> 
or <i>kernels</i> by the Romans, come from the 
East; but that is too general a term,—for the 
East being the quarter in which the sun 
rises, includes too many regions. Chesnuts 
were called by the antients <i>glandes Sardes</i>, 
from Syria, a province of Asia Minor, and 
they received their present name from a Grecian 
town, near which they were cultivated in 
abundance. As to walnuts, they were 
formerly named <i>glandes Jovis</i>, (<i>Jupiter’s acorns</i> or 
<i>kernels</i>) by the Romans; they are originally 
from Persia, and were spread through 
Europe by the Roman conquests. The great 
filberd-tree, bearing the Portugal nut or 
filberd, is originally from Pontus, a country of 
Asia Minor, and has been transplanted in the 
same way as the preceding. The origin of 
the almond-tree is uncertain; it is found 
wild in Asia and Africa: its fruit bore the 
name of <i>thalos</i> in Greece, because it had 
been first transplanted from an island of that 
name in the Archipelago.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—And cherries, papa,—cherries I 
like so much? Such quantities of them are 
in Switzerland, on the high roads and every 
where, that I think them natives of my 
country.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Not so, my friend; but of all 
exotic fruits it is certainly the one that thrives 
the most with us. They derived their name 
from <i>Cerasus</i>, another town of the Pontus 
already mentioned to you, and if I recollect 
right, the place is called <i>Chirisarda</i>. The 
celebrated Roman general Lucullus, after his 
victory over Mithridates king of Pontus, was 
the first who transported them into Europe, 
seventy years before the birth of Christ.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—I have not read any thing about 
cherries in Eutropius, where I should have 
been glad to find some account of them.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—I am of your opinion, Ernest, 
that historians would have done as well to 
give the names of those who procured an 
agreeable fruit, as in recording the 
destroyers of mankind.</p>

<p>In this kind of instructive conversation we 
had got to the end of our alley of trees, 
which looked all the better for the 
uprightness we had restored them to. This 
accomplished, we crossed Family Bridge on our 
way to the southern plantation of trees, in 
order to raise and prop them also. We were 
delighted with the view of beautiful orange, 
citron, and pomegranate trees, that had all 
taken root and were thriving to our satisfaction, 
as well as the pistachio and mulberry 
trees. Some of these were in blossom, and 
inspired us with the most pleasing hope. We 
quickly set to work, and my sons with 
increased curiosity renewed their inquiries 
concerning the origin of these delicious fruits.</p>

<p>Ah! how charming the country must be 
where such fruits as these grow 
spontaneously! exclaimed Fritz.</p>

<p>Considered as confined to this question 
only, said I, this country, no doubt, may be 
termed propitious; but in some other respects 
it has likewise its unfavourable side. All the 
fruits abounding with acid and refreshing 
juices, are natives of the torrid or burning 
zone, or of parts of the temperate zone most 
adjacent to it; they seem to have been 
designed to cool the mass of blood, and keep 
off the inflammatory diseases so frequent in 
these climates. Orange and lemon trees are 
certainly, as I think, from Medea and 
Assyria; the Romans called them <i>mala Medica</i>, 
or Medean apples; they were brought by the 
Persians to Albina, and thence into Sicily 
and the island of Malta, where the best 
species of orange trees is still found; they were 
afterwards transplanted to Italy, and in 
succession to many other parts of Europe. 
Pomegranates were named <i>mala Punicea</i>, (<i>Punic 
apples</i>,) and doubtless were brought by the 
Phoenicians and Carthaginians into the 
southern provinces of Europe. I have no positive 
knowledge of the original growth of 
pistachios. You are now, children, tolerably well 
informed on the subject of fruit trees.</p>

<p><i>All.</i>—No no, dear father, since you have 
gone so far, and are so kind as not to be tired 
of instructing us, pray tell us the primitive 
country of all the trees we have to straighten 
and prop; the description amuses us 
exceedingly.</p>

<p>I am glad of it, and all I know is entirely 
at your service; but hearing in this sudden 
and rapid succession, the species, qualities, 
and countries of such a variety of fruits, you 
will, I fear, overload your memory and 
forget the whole.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Pardon me, father, every one 
will recollect perfectly what relates to his 
favourite fruit, and we shall often talk on the 
subject in our walks under the shade of the 
very trees so principally concerned.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Well, be it so! Thus it is in fact 
with all the sciences; we do not easily forget 
what we wish to know, what is connected 
with our desires and hopes;—propose your 
questions then, and I will answer you as fully 
as I am able.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Well then, father, from what part 
do olives come originally?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—From Armenia and Palestine: 
Authors of antiquity say that Hercules 
brought the first into Europe, and planted 
them on Mount Olympus; they were 
gradually cultivated throughout Greece, and 
especially in the territory of Athens, whence 
they came into Italy, and from thence were 
spread over the south of France, and in 
Spain, where they are cultivated with the 
greatest care, on account of the excellent oil 
which is extracted from them. Figs belong 
to the same native soil; they were brought 
from Lydia and the isle of Chios into the 
Archipelago, in the time of Cato the Elder: 
they were transplanted into Gaul a long 
while after by the emperor Julian, who was 
previously prefect or governor of that Roman 
province. Peaches are from Persia, and 
were first named <i>mala Persica</i> (<i>Persian 
apples</i>). In Pliny’s time, who lived under the 
emperor Vespasian, they were still a novelty 
in Italy: the family of apricots from Armenia 
came amongst the Romans about the same 
time.</p>

<p>But now let us go on to plums, your 
favourite fruit:—Whence do they originate? 
Some of the inferior kinds are probably 
European; but those of the finest qualities are 
from other parts: they have reached us from 
Damascus, a town of Syria, from which 
their name is borrowed. In course of time 
the crusaders brought several species of them 
into Europe, and prunes most likely were 
among them.</p>

<p>Your favourite apples and pears now 
claim, I think, a few observations. We find 
them first noticed in Greek authors, under 
the denomination of <i>Peloponnesian fruits</i>; 
they were obtained from that country by the 
Romans; they found also several kinds of 
them in Syria and Alexandria. These two 
fruits, of all others offer the greatest varieties, 
and no doubt several of them are the result 
of culture, or of the influence of soil and 
climate. It is in general a law of nature, 
that care and attentive management produce 
in the same species a more considerable 
number of shades and varieties, than is met with 
in the wild uncultivated state, in which much 
sameness prevails throughout. Man in the 
rude state of nature is nearly alike every 
where, and is destitute of those diversities of 
character that naturally unfold themselves in 
his civilized condition. Every class of 
animals and plants, which man renders 
subservient to his use by cultivation and due 
care, exhibits beyond comparison greater 
differences in the same species, more varieties, 
more families, than those which remain in 
their native state, remote from and unaided 
by his fostering care:—it would appear as if 
Providence had thus meant to encourage and 
reward activity and labour.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—But, father, you left off with the 
apples too soon; do pray resume their 
history: I wish you may tell us they are of 
Swiss or German origin; they are so useful 
as a fruit, keep so well through the winter, 
and may be eaten raw as well as dressed.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—This refreshing fruit, my 
apple-eating boy, is not a native of Switzerland or 
Germany, as you desire it should be, but 
comes to us from more favoured climates; 
at least this is the case with the best sorts of 
them. We have a number of wild pear 
and apple trees, the fruit of which is crabbed, 
harsh, and scarcely eatable; whether they 
were so originally, or have degenerated, 
remains to be determined. As I have said, none of 
these valuable fruits are indigenous or native 
in the colder parts of Europe: yet this 
ungrateful and rough climate it is that operates 
on the European so as to distinguish him from 
the inhabitants of the other parts of the world, 
by his intelligence, his fitness for toil, and 
his skill in agriculture. There exist 
abundant means and facilities for rendering man 
effeminate and indolent, but necessity and 
want stimulate him to industry and useful 
inventions; and by these blessings the 
inconveniences of climate are amply 
compensated.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—I dare say you are quite right, 
father;—but tell me where then do apples 
come from?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—From the eastern countries, my 
son; and it is to the victories of the Romans 
we are indebted for some of the best kinds, 
which have been diversified by experiments, 
ingrafting, or in other words the influence 
of soil and labour and intelligence.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Quince and mulberry-trees are 
the last we have to inquire about; and then, 
father, we will cease our importunities for 
the present.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—It is almost time, I must confess. 
Mulberry-trees are in general from Asia; 
they have, I presume, been cultivated more 
for the sake of their leaves, on which 
silkworms feed, than for their fruit: however, 
it cannot be denied that the juicy berry of 
the dark-coloured mulberry-tree merits to be 
held in some estimation, and the 
white-coloured, whose fruit is small and indifferent, 
contributes to the production of the finest 
silk. The quince-tribe must have taken its 
name from the town of Cydonia in the isle 
of Crete; the Romans called them <i>pyrus 
Cydonæ</i>. On the quince-tree may be most 
successfully grafted pear-trees designed to 
be afterwards planted as espaliers.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—But why is it thought right to 
stunt the growth of a fine tree, and force it 
to remain diminutive?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—This, in several respects, is 
useful; wall-trees, being sheltered on one side, 
bear earlier and more choice fruits; it is 
easier to defend them from insects; their 
fruits are more conveniently gathered. The 
tree, giving less shade, is not so injurious to 
the culinary plants that are near it.—Are not 
these substantial reasons?</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—Then I must ask, why are not all 
trees set in this way?</p>

<p>That would not be a judicious plan by 
any means; an espalier takes up too much 
ground; besides, trees with high stems 
produce more fruit, they form orchards; a 
crop of hay too may be raised under them, 
whereas espaliers serve in general as fences 
or boundaries in gardens.</p>

<p>This is a compendium of our morning’s 
conversation, in the course of which we 
finished our work in the completest 
manner. Towards noon, a keen appetite 
hastened our return to Falcon’s Stream, where 
we found an excellent and plentiful dinner 
prepared by our good and patient steward, 
of which the palm-tree cabbage was the chief 
dish. We all agreed that to eat of a better 
or more delicate food was impossible; and 
Ernest, who had procured it, received the 
thanks of all the board.</p>

<p>When the sharpness of hunger was 
appeased, a new subject was introduced which 
I and my wife had been seriously revolving 
for some time; she found it difficult and 
even dangerous to ascend and descend our 
tree with a rope ladder: we never went there 
but on going to-bed, and each time felt an 
apprehension that one of the children, who 
scrambled up like cats, might make a false 
step and perhaps be lamed for ever. Bad 
weather might come on and compel us for a 
long time together to seek an asylum in our 
aërial apartment, and consequently to ascend 
and descend oftener.</p>

<p>My wife addressed me constantly on the 
subject, incessantly asking whether my 
inventive genius could not suggest some easier 
and less perilous mode of getting to our 
dwelling. I smiled at her implicit confidence 
that I could accomplish wonders: I assured 
her that if I were an enchanter or magician 
no desire of hers should remain ungratified, 
and that with a single touch of my wand I 
would instantly produce for her a 
commodious firm stair-case of perfect 
workmanship; but that not being the case, I 
acknowledged myself at a loss for the means to 
effect such an accommodation for her: still 
her reiterated appeals and my own anxiety 
had often made me reflect if the thing were 
really possible? A stair-case on the outside 
was not to be thought of, the considerable 
height of the tree rendered that 
impracticable, as I had nothing to rest it on, and 
should be at a loss to find beams to sustain 
it; but I had for some time formed the idea 
of constructing winding stairs within the 
immense trunk of the tree, if it should 
happen to be hollow, or I could contrive to 
make it so: Francis had excited this idea in 
speaking of the bees.</p>

<p>Did you not tell me, dear wife, said I, that 
there is a hole in the trunk of this enormous 
tree of ours, in which a swarm of bees is 
lodged?</p>

<p>Without doubt, answered she; it was 
there little Francis was so severely stung in 
attempting to thrust in a stick; look at it 
yourself, you will see the bees go in and 
come out in throngs.</p>

<p>Then, replied I, we have only to examine 
how far this excavation goes, whether it 
extends to the roots, and what the circumference 
of it is; this done, we shall have gained the 
first difficult step in favour of our stair-case.</p>

<p>All my children seized the idea with 
ardour; they sprang up, and prepared 
themselves to climb the tops of the roots like 
squirrels, to succeed in striking at the trunk 
with axes, and to judge from the sound 
how far it was hollow; but they soon paid 
dearly for their attempt: the whole swarm 
of bees, alarmed at the noise made against 
their dwelling, issued forth, buzzing with 
fury, attacked the little disturbers, began to 
sting them, stuck to their hair and clothes, 
and soon put them to flight, bearing along 
with them their enemies, and uttering 
lamentable cries. My wife and I had some 
trouble to stop the course of this uproar, and 
cover their little wounds with fresh earth to 
allay the smart. Jack, whose temper was on 
all occasions rash, had struck exactly upon 
the bees’ nest, and was more severely attacked 
by them than the rest; it was necessary, so 
serious was the injury, to cover the whole 
of his face with linen. The less active 
Ernest got up the last, and was the first to run 
off when he saw the consequences, and thus 
avoided any further injury than a sting or 
two; but some hours elapsed before the 
other boys could open their eyes or be in 
the least relieved from the acute pain that 
had been inflicted. When they grew a little 
better, the desire of being avenged of the 
insects that had so roughly used them had 
the ascendant in their minds: they teased 
me to hasten the measures for getting every 
thing in readiness for obtaining possession 
of their honey. The bees in the mean time 
were still buzzing furiously round the tree. 
I prepared tobacco, a pipe, some clay, 
chisels, hammers, <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr> I took the large gourd 
long intended for a hive, and I fitted a place 
for it by nailing a piece of board on a branch 
of the tree; I made a straw roof for the top 
to screen it from the sun and rain; and as 
all this took up more time than I was aware 
of, we deferred the attack of the fortress to 
the following day, and got ready for a sound 
sleep, which completed the cure of my little 
wounded patients.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap29" id="chap29" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER XXIX.<br/>
<small><em>Victory over the bees;—winding stair-case; 
training of various animals; divers 
manufactures; fountain, <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr></em></small></h2>

<p><span class="smcap">Next</span> morning almost before dawn all 
were up and in motion; the bees had 
returned to their cells, and I stopped the 
passages with clay, leaving only a sufficient 
aperture for the tube of my pipe. I then 
smoked as much as was requisite to stupefy 
without killing the little warlike creatures. 
Not having a cap with a mask, such as 
bee-catchers usually wear, nor even gloves, this 
precaution was necessary. At first a 
humming was heard in the hollow of the tree, 
and a noise like a gathering tempest, which 
died away by degrees. All was become 
calm, and I withdrew my tube without the 
appearance of a single bee. Fritz had got 
up by me: we then began with a chisel 
and a small axe to cut out of the tree, under 
the bees’ hole of entrance, a piece three feet 
square. Before it was entirely separated, 
I repeated the fumigation, lest the 
stupefaction produced by the first smoking should 
have ceased, or the noise we had been just 
making revived the bees. As soon as I 
supposed them quite lulled again, I separated 
from the trunk the piece I had cut out, 
producing as it were the aspect of a window, 
through which the inside of the tree was 
laid entirely open to view; and we were filled 
at once with joy and astonishment on 
beholding the immense and wonderful work of this 
colony of insects. There was such a stock 
of wax and honey, that we feared our vessels 
would be insufficient to contain it. The 
whole interior of the tree was lined with 
fine honey-combs: I cut them off with care, 
and put them in the gourds the boys 
constantly supplied me with. When I had 
somewhat cleared the cavity, I put the upper 
combs, in which the bees had assembled in 
clusters and swarms, into the gourd which 
was to serve as a hive, and placed it on the 
plank I had purposely raised. I came down, 
bringing with me the rest of the honey-combs, 
with which I filled a small cask, previously well 
washed in the stream. Some I kept out for a 
treat at dinner; and had the barrel carefully 
covered with cloths and planks, that the 
bees, when attracted by the smell, might 
be unable to get at it. We then sat round 
the table, and regaled ourselves plentifully 
with the delicious and odoriferous treat of the 
honey. Having finished our meal, my wife 
put by the remainder; and I proposed to 
my sons to go back to the tree, in order to 
prevent the bees from swarming again there 
on being roused from their stupor, as they 
would not have failed to do, but for the 
precaution I took of passing a board at the aperture, 
and burning a few handfuls of tobacco on it, 
the smell and smoke of which drove them back 
from their old abode, whenever they 
attempted to return to it. At length they desisted 
from approaching it, and became gradually 
reconciled to their new residence, where their 
queen no doubt had settled herself. I took 
this opportunity to relate to my children 
all I had read in the interesting work by 
Mr. Huber of Geneva<sup><a id="note17text"/><a href="#note17" class="pginternal">17</a></sup> of the queen-bee, 
this beloved and respected mother of her 
subjects, who are all her children, and who 
take care of and guard her, work for her, 
nourish the rising swarms, make the cells in 
which they are to lodge, prepare others of 
a different structure, as well as nutriment 
for the young queens destined to lead forth 
the fresh colonies: and I entered into all 
those details which celebrated observers, and 
particularly the one we have just mentioned, 
have described so interestingly. These 
accounts highly entertained my youthful 
auditory, who almost regretted having molested 
by their depredation the repose of a fine 
peaceable kingdom that had flourished so 
long without interruption in the huge trunk. 
As to me, it so well suited my intended 
stair-case, that I readily adopted the 
prevailing moral amongst conquerors, who dispense 
with scruples when the seizing a country is 
convenient to their policy, and I resolved to 
take full possession next day. In the mean 
time I advised all to watch during the night, 
over the whole provision of honey obtained 
while the bees were torpid, who when 
recovered would not fail to be troublesome, 
and come in legions to get back to their 
property. That we might not be ourselves 
injured by so much fatigue, we went and 
threw ourselves on our beds, and in our 
clothes, to take a short doze before the hour 
of retreat; we were lulled to sleep with 
their buzzing, which had quite ceased when 
we awoke at the coming on of night; they 
had remained quiet in the gourd or 
suspended in clusters from some branches: without 
concerning ourselves about them, we went 
promptly to business; the cask of honey was 
emptied into a kettle, except a few prime 
combs which we kept for daily 
consumption; the remainder mixed with a little 
water was set over a gentle fire and reduced 
to a liquid consistence, strained and squeezed 
through a bag, and afterwards poured back 
into the cask, which was left upright and 
uncovered all night to cool. In the morning 
the wax was entirely separated, and had 
risen to the surface in a compact and solid 
cake that was easily removed; beneath was 
the purest, most beautiful and delicate honey 
that could be seen: the cask was then 
carefully headed again, and put into cool 
ground near our wine vessels; and now we 
promised ourselves an abundant supply of 
an agreeable article for desserts. This task 
accomplished, I mounted to revisit the hive, 
and found every thing in order; the bees 
going forth in swarms and returning loaded 
with wax, from which I judged they were 
forming fresh edifices in their new dwelling 
place. I was surprised to see the numbers 
that had occupied the trunk of the tree find 
room in the gourd; but on looking round 
me, I perceived a part of them collected in 
a cluster upon a branch, and I thence 
concluded a young queen was amongst them.</p>

<p>On perceiving this, I procured another gourd, 
into which I shook them and placed it by the 
former: thus I had the satisfaction of 
obtaining at an easy rate two fine hives of bees 
in activity.</p>

<p>We soon after these operations proceeded 
to examine the inside of the tree. I sounded 
it with a pole from the opening I had made 
towards the top; and a stone fastened to 
a string served us to sound the bottom, and 
thus to ascertain the height and depth of the 
cavity. To my great surprise the pole 
penetrated without any resistance to the branches 
on which our dwelling rested, and the stone 
descended to the roots. The trunk, it 
appeared, had wholly lost its pith, and most 
of its wood internally; nothing therefore 
was more practicable than to fix winding 
stairs in this capacious hollow, that should 
reach from top to bottom. It seems that 
this species of tree, like the willow in our 
climates, receives nourishment through the 
bark; for it did not look decayed, and its 
far-extended branches were luxuriant and 
beautiful in the extreme. I determined to 
begin our construction that very day. The 
undertaking appeared at first beyond our 
powers; but intelligence, patience, time, and 
a firm resolution vanquished all obstacles. 
We were not disposed to relax in any of 
these requisites; and I was pleased to find 
opportunities to keep my sons in continual 
action, and their minds and bodies were all 
the better for exertion. They grew tall, 
strong, and were too much engaged to 
regret, in ignoble leisure, any of their past 
enjoyments in Europe.</p>

<p>We began to cut into the side of the tree, 
towards the sea, a door-way equal in 
dimensions to the door of the captain’s cabin, 
which we had removed with all its 
frame-work and windows; by means of which we 
should at once be guarded against every 
attack on that side. We next cleared away 
from the cavity all the rotten wood, and 
rendered the interior even and smooth, leaving 
sufficient thickness for cutting out 
resting-places for the winding stairs, without injuring 
the bark. I then fixed in the centre, the 
trunk of a tree ten or twelve feet high 
and a foot thick, completely stripped of its 
branches, in order to carry my winding 
staircase round it: on the outside of this trunk, 
and the inside of the cavity of our own tree, 
we formed grooves, so calculated as to 
correspond with the distances at which the boards 
were to be placed to form the stairs. These 
were continued till I had got to the height 
of the trunk round which they turned. The 
window I had opened at the top to take out 
the honey gave light enough. I made a 
second aperture below, and a third above it, 
and thus completely lighted the whole ascent. 
I also effected an opening near our room, 
that I might more conveniently finish the 
upper part of the stair-case. A second trunk 
was fixed upon the first, and firmly sustained 
with screws and transverse beams. It was 
surrounded like the other with stairs cut 
slopingly; and thus we happily effected the 
stupendous undertaking of conducting it to 
the level of our bed-chamber. Here I made 
another door directly into it; and I then 
found I could add nothing further to my 
design. If my staircase was not in strict 
conformity to the rules of architecture, it at 
least answered the purpose it was built for, 
that of conducting us with safety and shelter 
to our nocturnal residence. To render it 
more solid and agreeable, I closed the spaces 
between the stairs with plank. I then 
fastened two strong ropes, the one descending 
the length of the little tree, the other along 
the side of the large one, to assist in case of 
slipping. I fixed the sash-windows taken from 
the captain’s cabin in the apertures we had 
made to give light to the stairs; and when 
the whole was complete, it was so pretty, 
solid, and convenient, that we were never 
tired of going up and coming down it; and 
I fear I must add, for the sake of truth, with 
no small admiration of our united talents. 
I must, however, candidly own, that we 
succeeded in this arduous attempt by mere 
dint of efforts, patience, industry, and time; 
for it occupied us for several weeks together 
with no intermission. It more than once 
reminded me of the wise system of 
education of the philosopher of Geneva, J. J. 
Rousseau; and particularly where he 
recommends that boys of all classes in society 
should learn a trade, and especially that of 
a carpenter. How happy should I have been 
in our circumstances to have known this 
trade myself, and to have taught it to my 
eldest son! I cannot too earnestly exhort all 
fathers to put their sons in early possession 
of a resource which, though it may not 
become of the first necessity, has, at all events, 
the advantage of making a young man 
stronger, and more dexterous; of filling up 
many of the dangerous idle hours of ardent 
youth; and of being able, in maturer age, 
if it be unnecessary to work ourselves, at 
least to overlook the workmen we employ. 
I am not an enthusiast for the system of 
Rousseau, though I admire his style and 
genius; yet if humanity were indebted to him 
for no more than this sagacious counsel, and 
the felicity conferred by his maxims on early 
childhood, it would still suffice to make us 
love and consider him as a benefactor.</p>

<p>But our new acquisition of a handsome 
staircase did not exclusively occupy the 
whole of our time; as in our solitude we had 
nothing to consider but our own pleasure or 
convenience, and our daily wants were not 
subject to the occurrence of other social 
duties, we saw no occasion for tormenting 
ourselves with a greater degree of labour in 
every day than was wholesome for our 
bodily health. We had no harsh surveyor, no 
inquisitive examiners; no troublesome 
neighbours nor counsellors. If we occasionally 
regretted not being members of a large 
society under just laws and agreements 
established between societies of men, we more 
frequently complimented ourselves on not 
being subjected to this restraint and the 
inconveniences that arise from it. If we 
happened now and then to feel the want of some 
of the high-wrought pleasures of social 
existence, we were speedily solaced by reflecting 
that we did not stand in need of money; that 
we had no uneasy care about the acquisition 
of it; that we excited neither envy, pity, nor 
censure; while the imperfection of our 
achievements, and the trouble they cost us, 
were richly compensated by the freedom and 
cheerfulness with which they were executed, 
ever without altercation, and with united 
hearts and souls.</p>

<p>I will briefly narrate the few remarkable 
occurrences that took place during the 
construction of our staircase.</p>

<p>A few days after the commencement of 
our stair-case, the two she-goats gave us 
two kids, and our ewes five lambs; so that 
we now saw ourselves in possession of a 
pretty flock: but lest the domestic animals 
should follow the example of the ass, and 
run away from us, I tied a bell to the neck 
of each. We had found a sufficient number 
of bells in the vessel, which had been shipped 
for trading with the savages; it being one of 
the articles they most value. We could 
now immediately trace a deserter by the 
sound, and bring it back to the fold.</p>

<p>Next to the winding stairs, my chief 
occupation was the management of the young 
buffalo, whose wound in the nose was quite 
healed, so that I could lead it at will with a 
cord or stick passed through the orifice, as 
the Caffrarians do. I preferred the latter, 
which answered the purpose of a bit; and 
I resolved to break-in this spirited beast for 
riding as well as drawing. It was already 
used to the shafts, and very tractable in 
them; but I had more trouble in inuring 
him to the rider, and to wear a girth, 
having made one out of the old buffalo’s hide. 
I formed a sort of saddle with sail-cloth, and 
tacked it to the girth. Upon this I fixed 
a burthen, which I increased progressively. 
I was indefatigable in the training of the 
animal, and soon brought it to carry, 
without fear or repugnance, large bags full of 
potatoes, salt, and other articles, such as the 
ass had patiently borne to be loaded with. 
The monkey was his first rider, who stuck 
so close to the saddle, that in spite of the 
plunging and kicking of the buffalo, it was 
not thrown. Francis was then tried, as the 
lightest of the family; but throughout his 
excursion I led the beast with a halter, that 
it might not throw the child off. Jack now 
showed some impatience to mount the 
animal in his turn. Some restraint was 
requisite:—I passed the appropriate piece of wood 
through the buffalo’s nose, and tied strong 
packthread at each end of the stick, 
bringing them together over the neck of the 
animal; and I then put this new-fashioned 
bridle into the hands of the young rider, 
directing him how to use it. For a time the 
lad kept his saddle, notwithstanding the 
repeated jumps of the horned steed; at length 
a side jolt threw him on the sand, without his 
receiving much injury. Ernest, Fritz, and 
lastly myself, got on successively, with more 
or less effect. His trotting shook us to the 
very centre, the rapidity of his gallop turned 
us giddy, and our lessons in horsemanship 
were reiterated many days before the animal 
was tamed, and could be rode with either 
safety or pleasure. At last, however, we 
succeeded without any serious accident; and 
the strength and swiftness of our saddled 
buffalo were prodigious. It seemed to sport 
with the heaviest loads. My three eldest 
boys mounted it together now and then, and 
it ran with them with the swiftness of 
lightning. By continued attentions it at length 
became extremely docile: it was not in the 
least apt to start; and I really felt 
satisfaction in being thus enabled to make my sons 
expert riders, so that if they should ever 
have horses, they might get on the most 
restive and fiery without any fear:—none 
could be compared to our young buffalo; 
and the ass which I had intended to employ 
in the same way was far surpassed by this 
new member of our family. Fritz and Jack, 
with my instructions, amused themselves in 
training the animal as horses are exercised 
in a riding-house; and by means of the little 
stick through the nose, they were able to do 
what they pleased with him.</p>

<p>In the midst of all this Fritz did not 
neglect his eagle; he daily shot some small 
birds which he gave it to eat, placing them 
sometimes betwixt the buffalo’s horns, 
sometimes on the back of one of the hens, or of 
a flamingo, or on a shelf, or at the end of 
a stick, in order to teach it to pounce like 
a falcon upon other birds. He taught it to 
perch on his wrist whenever he called or 
whistled to it; but some time elapsed before 
he could trust it to soar without securing its 
return by a long string, apprehending its 
bold and wild nature would prompt it to 
take a distant and farewell flight from us.</p>

<p>Our whole company, including even the 
inert Ernest, was infected with the passion of 
becoming instructors. Ernest tried his 
talents in this way with his monkey; who, it 
must be confessed, seldom failed to furnish 
him with work. It was no poor specimen 
of the ludicrous to see the lad; he whose 
movements were habitually slow and studied, 
now constrained to skip, and jump, and play 
a thousand antics with his pupil during 
training hours, and all the time deeply interested 
in carrying forward the lesson the grotesque 
mimic was condemned to learn, of carrying 
small loads, climbing the cocoa-trees, and to 
fetch and bring the nuts. He and Jack 
made a little hamper of rushes, very light: 
they put three straps to it, two of which 
passed under the fore, and one between the 
hind legs of the animal, and were then 
fastened to a belt in front, to keep the hamper 
steady on the back of the mischievous 
urchin. This apparatus was at first intolerable 
to poor Knips: he gnashed his teeth, rolled 
on the ground, jumping like a mad creature, 
and did every thing to get rid of it; but all 
in vain, for education was the standing order, 
and he soon found he must submit. The 
hamper was left on day and night; its sole 
food was what was thrown into it; and in 
a short time pug was so much accustomed to 
the burden, that he began to spit and growl 
whenever we attempted to take it off, and 
every thing given to the creature to hold was 
instantly thrown into it. Knips became at 
length a useful member of our society; but 
he would only obey Ernest, whom he 
at once loved and feared, thus affording a 
proof of at least one of the great ends of all 
instruction. Jack was less successful with 
his little jackal, which he had named 
<i>Hunter</i>, hoping that its qualities would justify the 
name. He made continual attempts to 
induce the animal to go after game; but for 
the first six months he advanced no further 
in the lesson than teaching him to bring 
what was thrown to it: and when it was 
dead game, Hunter was sure to devour it on 
the way, and to bring home the skin alone: 
but it was nevertheless so pretty and 
tractable a creature, that I intreated the boy not 
to relinquish a task that would prove so 
beneficial to us; and he persevered with 
considerable zeal.</p>

<p>These different occupations filled up 
several hours of the day; when, after working 
at our stairs, we assembled in the evening 
round our never-failing constant friend, the 
good mother, to rest ourselves: and forming 
a little circle, every individual of which was 
affectionate and cheerful, it was her turn to 
give us some agreeable and less fatiguing 
occupation in the domestic concerns of 
Falcon Stream: such, for example, as 
endeavouring to improve our candle-manufactory, 
by blending the berry and the bees-wax, 
and employing the reed-moulds invented by 
Jack: but having found some difficulty in 
taking out the candles when cold, I adopted 
the plan of dividing the moulds, cleaning 
the inside, and rubbing it over with a little 
butter, to prevent the wax from adhering to 
it; then to rejoin both halves with a band 
that could be loosened at pleasure, to 
facilitate the extraction of the tapers. The wicks 
gave us most trouble, as we had no cotton. 
We tried with moderate success the fibrous 
threads of the karatta, and those of the 
algava or flame-wood; but each had the 
inconvenience of becoming a sort of coal or cinder. 
The production which gave us the most 
satisfaction was the pith of a species of elder; 
but it did not, however, lessen our desire to 
discover the only appropriate ingredient, the 
cotton-tree. I likewise contrived a method 
of rendering our candles even and shining, 
by rolling them between two boards; they 
now were only distinguishable from those of 
Europe by a greenish hue. On my observing 
to my sons that wax was bleached like linen, 
by spreading it on cloths, and exposing it to 
the dew and sun, they wished to try the 
process; but as our green tapers burned 
remarkably well, bleaching the wax would 
have been a useless luxury and loss of time, 
which I could turn to more account in 
manufacturing our impenetrable boots without 
seams, of the caoutchouc or elastic gum.</p>

<p>I began with a pair for myself; and I 
encouraged my children to afford a specimen 
of their industry, by trying to form some 
flasks and cups that could not break. They 
commenced by making some clay moulds, 
which they covered with layers of gum, 
agreeably to the instructions I had given 
them.</p>

<p>In the meanwhile I compactly filled a 
pair of stockings with sand, and covered 
them with a layer of clay, which I first dried 
in the shade, and afterwards in the sun. I 
then took a sole of buffalo-leather, well 
beaten, and studded round with tacks, which 
served me to fix it under the foot of the 
stocking; and after this I poured the liquid 
gum into all the interstices, which on drying 
produced a close adhesion between the 
leather and stocking sole. I next proceeded to 
smear the whole with a coat of resin of a 
tolerable thickness; and as soon as this layer 
was dried on, I put on another, and so on till 
I had spread on a sufficiency with my brush. 
After which I emptied the sand, drew out the 
stocking, removed the hardened clay, shook 
off the dust, and thus obtained a pair of 
seamless boots, as finished as if made by the 
best English workman; being pliant, warm, 
soft, smooth, and completely water-proof.</p>

<p>I hung them up directly, that they might dry 
without shrinking. They fitted uncommonly 
well; and my four lads were so highly 
pleased with their appearance, that they 
skipped about with joy in requesting me to 
make each of them a pair. I refrained from 
any promise, because I wished to ascertain 
their strength previously, and to compare 
them with boots made out of mere buffalo-leather. 
Of these I at once began a pair 
for Fritz, with a piece of the slaughtered 
buffalo’s skin. They gave far more trouble 
than those manufactured with the 
caoutchouc, which I used to cover the seams and 
render them less pervious to water. The 
work turned out very imperfect, and so 
inferior to my incomparable boots, that Fritz 
wore them reluctantly; and the more so, 
as his brothers shouted with laughter at the 
difficulty he had to run in them. My boys 
had succeeded tolerably well with their new 
ware, though still imperfect; but as a first 
essay performed by tyro artists, I was 
satisfied with their productions.</p>

<p>We had also been engaged in the 
construction of our fountain, which afforded 
a perpetual source of pleasure to my wife, 
and indeed to all of us. In the upper part 
of the stream we built with stakes and stones 
a kind of dam, that raised the water 
sufficiently to convey it into the palm-tree troughs; 
and afterwards, by means of a gentle slope, 
to glide on contiguous to our habitation, 
where it fell into the tortoise-shell bason, 
which we had elevated on stones to a certain 
height for our convenience; and it was so 
contrived that the redundant water passed 
off through a cane pipe fitted to it. I placed 
two sticks athwart each other for the gourds, 
that served as pails, to rest on; and we thus 
produced, close to our abode, an agreeable 
fountain, delighting with its rill, and 
supplying us with a pure crystal fluid, and such 
as we frequently could not get when we 
drew our water from the bed of the river, 
which was often blended with the leaves and 
earth fallen into it, or rendered turbid by our 
water-fowls. The only inconvenience was, 
that the water flowing in this open state 
through narrow channels in a slender stream, 
was heated, and not refreshing when it 
reached us. I resolved to obviate this 
inconvenience at my future leisure, by 
employing, instead of the uncovered conduits, 
large bamboo-canes fixed deep enough in 
the ground to keep the water cool. In 
waiting the execution of this design, we felt 
pleasure in the new acquisition; and Fritz, who 
had suggested the notion, received his tribute 
of praise from all.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap30" id="chap30" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER XXX.<br/>
<small><em>The wild ass;—difficulty in breaking 
it;—the heath-fowl’s nest.</em></small></h2>

<p><span class="smcap">We</span> were scarcely up one morning, and had 
got to work in putting the last hand to our 
winding stair-case, when we heard at a 
distance two strange peculiar kind of voices, 
that resembled the howlings of wild beasts, 
mixed with hissings and sounds of some 
creature at its last gasp, which I was at a loss to 
explain, and I was not without uneasiness; 
our dogs too pricked up their ears, and 
seemed to whet their teeth for a sanguinary 
combat with a dangerous enemy.</p>

<p>From their looks we judged it prudent to 
put ourselves in a state of defence; we 
loaded our guns and pistols, placed them 
together within our castle in the tree, and 
prepared to repel vigourously any hostile attack 
from that quarter. The howlings having 
ceased an instant, I descended from our 
citadel, well armed, and put on our two 
faithful guardians their spiked collars and 
side-guards: I assembled our cattle about the tree 
to have them in sight, and I reascended to 
look around for the enemy’s approach. Jack 
wished they might be lions—I should like, 
said he, to have a near view of the king of 
beasts, and should not be in the least afraid 
of him, for lions are deemed generous!</p>

<p>I do not advise you, answered I, to trust 
the report, though you may not fear a lion 
when elevated as you are forty feet above 
them: but these are not lions; their 
roarings are more lengthened, majestic, and fill 
all other animals that hear them with fear 
and trembling; I do not observe this effect 
amongst ours.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—I rather surmise they are a troop 
of jackals, disposed to avenge the death of 
their comrades.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—It is not the jackal’s cry: I am 
more inclined to fear they are hyenas, whose 
howling must, one would think, be as 
frightful as their looks.</p>

<p><i>Francis.</i>—Now I think they are savages 
come to eat their prisoners on our island; I 
wish we could save them, and get a good 
<i>Man Friday</i> as Robinson Crusoe did.</p>

<p>Whatever it is, children, let us not yield to 
fear or imagination; we are in safety here...</p>

<p>At this very instant the howlings were 
renewed and quite close to us. Fritz got as 
near the spot as he could, listened attentively 
and with eager looks, then threw down his 
gun and burst into a loud laughter, exclaiming: 
Father, it is our ass—the deserter comes 
back to us, chanting the hymn of return: 
listen! do you not hear his melodious brayings 
in all the varieties of the gamut?—We 
lent an ear; our doubts ceased, and we felt 
somewhat mortified at our premature alarms 
and preparations of defence against such an 
ignoble foe.</p>

<p>I on my part, however, was soon 
reconciled to the offence against our pride, since 
it also insured our safety: and a fresh roar, 
in sounds unquestionable, raised loud peals 
of laughter among us; and then followed the 
usual train of jests and mutual banter at the 
alarm we had one and all betrayed. Shortly 
after, we had the satisfaction of seeing among 
the trees our old friend Grizzle, moving 
towards us leisurely, and stopping now and then 
to browse; but to our great joy we 
perceived in his train one of the same species of 
very superior beauty, and when it was nearer 
I knew it to be a fine onagra<sup><a id="note18text"/><a href="#note18" class="pginternal">18</a></sup> or wild ass, 
which I conceived a strong desire to possess, 
though at the same time aware of the 
extreme difficulty there would be in taming and 
rendering him subject to the use of man. 
Some writers who have described it under 
the name of the <i>Œigitai</i>, (or long-eared 
horse,) given it by the Tartars, affirm that 
the taming it has been ever found absolutely 
impracticable; but my mind furnished an idea 
on the subject which I was resolved to act 
on, if I got possession of the handsome 
creature. Without delay I descended the 
ladder with Fritz, desiring his brothers to 
keep still; and I consulted my 
privy-counsellor on the means of surprising and taking 
the stranger captive. I got ready, as soon 
as possible, a long cord with a running knot, 
one end of which I tied fast to the root of a 
tree; the noose was kept open with a little 
stick slightly fixed in the opening so as to 
fall of itself on the cord being thrown round 
the neck of the animal, whose efforts to 
escape would draw the knot closer. I also 
prepared a piece of bamboo about two feet long, 
which I split at the bottom, and tied fast 
at top, to serve as nippers. Fritz 
attentively examined my contrivance, without seeing 
the use of it. Prompted by the impatience 
of youth, he took the ball-sling and proposed 
aiming at the wild ass with it, which he said 
was the shortest way of proceeding. I 
declined adopting this Patagonian method, 
fearing the attempt might fail, and the beautiful 
creature avail itself of its natural velocity to 
evade us beyond recovery: I therefore told 
him my project of catching it in the noose, 
which I gave him to manage, as being nimbler 
and more expert than myself. The two asses 
drew nearer and nearer to us. Fritz, 
holding in his hand the open noose, moved softly 
on from behind the tree where we were 
concealed, and advanced as far as the length 
of the rope allowed him: the onagra was 
extremely startled on perceiving a human 
figure; it sprung some paces backward, then 
stopped as if to examine the unknown form; 
but as Fritz now remained quite still, the 
animal resumed its composure and continued 
to browse. Soon after he approached the 
old ass, hoping that the confidence that would 
be shown by it, would raise a similar feeling 
in the stranger: he held out a handful of 
oats mixed with salt; our ass instantly ran up 
to take its favourite food, and greedily 
devoured it; this was quickly perceived by the 
other. It drew near, raised its head, breathed 
strongly and came up so close, that Fritz, 
seizing the opportunity, succeeded in 
throwing the rope round its neck; but the motion 
and stroke so affrighted the beast that it 
instantly sprang off; it was soon checked by 
the cord, which in compressing the neck 
almost stopped its breath: it could go no 
further, and after many exhausting efforts, it 
sunk panting for breath upon the ground. 
I hastened to loosen the cord and prevent its 
being strangled. I then quickly threw our 
ass’s halter over its head; I fixed the nose in 
my split cane, which I secured at the bottom 
with packthread. Thus I succeeded in 
subduing the first alarm of this wild animal, as 
farriers shoe a horse for the first time. I wholly 
removed the noose that seemed to bring the 
creature into a dangerous situation; I fastened the 
halter with two long ropes to two roots near us, 
on the right and left, and let the animal 
recover itself, noticing its actions, and devising the 
best way to tame it in the completest manner.</p>

<p>The rest of my family had by this time 
come down from the tree and beheld the fine 
creature with admiration, its graceful shape 
and well-turned limbs, which placed it so 
much above the ass, and nearly raised it to the 
noble structure of the horse! In a few 
moments the onagra got up again, struck 
furiously with its foot, and seemed resolved to 
free itself from all bonds: but the pain of its 
nose, which was grasped and violently 
squeezed in the bamboo, forced it to lie down again. 
My eldest son and I now gently undid the 
cords, and half led, half dragged it between 
two roots closely connected, to which we 
fastened it afresh so as to give the least scope 
for motion, and thus, render its escape 
impracticable, whilst it enabled us to approach 
securely and examine the valuable capture 
we had made. We also guarded against 
master Grizzle playing truant again, and tied 
him fast with a new halter, confining its fore 
legs with a rope. I then fastened it and the 
wild ass side by side, and put before both 
plenty of good provender to solace their 
impatience of captivity.</p>

<p>We had now the additional occupation of 
training the onagra for our service or our 
pleasure as might turn out to be most 
practicable: my boys exulted in the idea of riding 
it, and we repeatedly congratulated each 
other on the good fortune which had thus 
resulted from the flight of our ass. Yet I 
did not conceal that we should have many 
difficulties to encounter in taming it, though 
it seemed very young and not even to have 
reached its full growth. But I was inclined 
to think proper means had not been hitherto 
adopted, and that the hunters, almost as 
savage as the animals themselves, had not 
employed sufficient art and patience, being 
probably unconscious of the advantages of either. 
I therefore determined to resort to all possible 
measures: I let the nippers remain on its 
nose, which appeared to distress him greatly, 
though we could plainly perceive their good 
effect in subduing the creature, for without 
them no one could have ventured to approach 
him; I took them off however at times when 
I gave it food, to render eating easier, and I 
began, as with the buffalo, by placing a 
bundle of sail-cloth on its back to inure it to 
carry. When accustomed to the load, I 
strove to render the beast still by degrees 
more docile, by hunger and thirst; and I 
observed with pleasure that when it had fasted 
a little and I supplied it with food, its look 
and actions were less wild. I also compelled 
the animal to keep erect on its four legs, by 
drawing the cords closer that fastened it to 
the roots, in order to subdue gradually by 
fatigue its natural ferocity. The children 
came in turns to play with it and scratch its 
ears gently, which were remarkably tender; 
and it was on these I resolved to make my 
last trial if all other endeavours failed. For a 
long time we despaired of success; the 
onagra made furious starts and leaps when any 
of us went near it, kicked with its hind feet, 
and even attempted to bite those who 
touched it. This obliged me to have recourse to 
a muzzle, which I managed with rushes, and 
put on when it was not feeding. To avoid 
being struck by its hind feet, I partially 
confined them by fastening them to the fore feet 
with cords, which however I left moderately 
loose, that we might not encroach too much 
upon the motion necessary for its health. It 
was at length familiarized to this discipline, 
and was no longer in a rage when we 
approached, but grew less impatient daily, and 
bore to be handled and stroked.</p>

<p>At last we ventured to free it by degrees 
from its restraints and to ride it as we had 
done with the buffalo, still keeping the fore 
feet tied; but notwithstanding this 
precaution and every preceding means, it proved as 
fierce and unruly as ever for the moment. 
The monkey, who was first put on its back, 
held on pretty well by clinging to its mane, 
from which it was suspended as often as the 
onagra furiously reared and plunged; it was 
therefore for the present impracticable for 
either of my sons to get upon it. The 
perverse beast baffled all our efforts, and the 
perilous task of breaking it was still to be 
persevered in with terror and apprehension. In 
the stable it seemed tolerably quiet and 
gentle; but the moment it was in any degree 
unshackled, it became wholly ferocious and 
unmanageable.</p>

<p>I was at length reduced to my last 
expedient, but not without much regret, as I 
resolved, if it did not answer, to restore the 
animal to full liberty. I tried to mount the 
onagra, and just as in the act of rearing up 
violently to prevent me, I seized with my 
teeth one of the long ears of the enraged 
creature, and bit it till it bled; instantly it 
stood almost erect on its hind feet, 
motionless, and as stiff as a stake; it soon lowered 
itself by degrees, while I still held its ear 
between my teeth. Fritz seized the moment 
and sprung on its back; Jack, with the help 
of his mother, did the same, holding by his 
brother, who, on his part, clung to the girth. 
When both assured me they were firmly 
seated, I let go the ear: the onagra made a 
few springs less violent than the former, and 
checked by the cords on its feet, it gradually 
submitted, began to trot up and down more 
quietly, and ultimately grew so tractable that 
riding it became one of our chief pleasures. 
My lads were soon expert horsemen; and 
their horse, though rather long-eared, was 
very handsome and well broken in. Thus 
patience on our parts conquered a serious 
difficulty, and gained for us a proud 
advantage.</p>

<p>In the name of goodness, said my wife to 
me one evening, after one of our first essays, 
where did you learn this strange notion of 
biting the animal’s ear? I learned it, replied 
I, from a horse-breaker whom I fell in with 
by chance: he had lived long in America 
and carried on the skin-trade with the 
savages, to whom he took in exchange various 
European goods. He employed in these 
journeys, half-tamed horses of the southern 
provinces of that country, which are caught 
in snares or with nooses. They are at first 
unruly and resist burthens, but as soon as 
the hunter bites one of their ears they 
become mild and submissive; and they become 
so docile, that any thing may be done with 
them. The journey is continued through 
forests and over heaths to the dwellings of 
the savages; skins are given in barter for 
the goods brought them, with which the 
horses are re-loaded. They set out again on 
their return, and are directed by the compass 
and stars to the European settlements, where 
they profitably dispose of their skins and 
horses.—Till now I thought this singular 
mode of taming a wild beast fabulous, but 
the young onagra convinces me of the truth 
of the accounts I heard. In a few weeks 
the onagra was so effectually tamed, that we 
all could mount it without fear: I still 
however kept his two fore legs confined together 
with the cord, to moderate the extreme 
swiftness of its running. In the room of a bit, I 
contrived a curb, and with this and a good 
bite applied, as wanted, to the ear, it went 
to right or left at the will of the rider. 
Now and then I mounted it myself, and not 
without an emotion of pride at my success 
in subduing an animal that had been 
considered by travellers and naturalists as 
absolutely beyond the power of man to tame. 
But how superior was my gratification in 
seeing Fritz spring at any time on the 
creature’s back and do what he pleased with it, 
drive along our avenue like lightning, in 
depicting to my fond imagination that even on 
a desert unknown island, I could qualify 
my dear children to re-enter society and 
become in such respects its ornament! in 
beholding their physical strength and native 
graces unfold themselves, and these keeping 
pace with the improvement of their 
intelligence and their judgement; and in 
anticipating that, buried as they were in a distant 
retreat, far from the tumult of the world, and 
all that excites the passions, their sentiments 
would be formed in exact conformity to the 
paternal feelings of my heart! I had not 
lost hope that we should one day return to 
Europe in some vessel chance might throw 
on our coast, or even with the aid of our 
pinnace; but I felt at the same time, and 
my wife still more, that we should not leave 
the island without a lively regret, and I 
determined to pursue my arrangements as if 
we were to close existence on a spot where 
all around us prospered.</p>

<p>During the training of our horse, which 
we named <i>Light-foot</i>, a triple brood of our 
hens had given us a crowd of little feathered 
beings; forty of these, at least, were chirping 
and hopping about us, to the great 
satisfaction of my wife, whose zealous care of them 
sometimes made me smile. Most women’s 
hearts are so imbued with maternal love as to 
excite in them a fondness for whatever bears 
a similitude to infancy. Thus, my admirable 
partner, far from complaining of the trouble 
such a number of young chickens gave her, 
took delight in it, and was constantly admiring 
them; yet her care and admiration did not 
prevent her appropriating a part of them to 
the table, and sending the remainder in small 
colonies to feed and breed in the desert, 
where we could find them as they were 
wanted for our use.</p>

<p>Here, she said, are animals of real utility 
in a family, far beyond your monkeys, 
jackals, and eagles, that do nothing but eat, and 
are unfit to be eaten. The buffalo was not 
found fault with, because it brought her the 
provisions, nor the onagra, on which she 
liked to see her sons gallop. From the time 
we had trained it to this, the rough-paced 
buffalo that shook us to pieces was no longer 
used for riding, but kept entirely for drawing.</p>

<p>This increase of our poultry reminded us 
of the necessity of an undertaking we had 
long thought of, and was not in prudence 
to be deferred any longer; this was the 
building between the roots of our great tree, 
covered sheds for all our bipeds and 
quadrupeds. The rainy season, which is the winter 
of these countries, was drawing near, and 
to avoid losing most of our stock it was 
requisite to shelter it.</p>

<p>We began by forming a kind of roof 
above the arched roots of our tree, and 
employed bamboo canes for the purpose; the 
longest and strongest supported the roofing 
in the place of columns, the smaller more 
closely united and composed the roof itself. 
I filled up the interstices with moss and clay, 
and I spread over the whole a thick coat of 
tar. By these means I formed a compact 
and solid covering, capable of bearing 
pressure. I then made a railing round it, which 
gave the appearance of a pretty balcony, 
under which, between the roots, were 
various stalls sheltered from rain and sun, that 
could be easily shut and separated from each 
other by means of planks nailed upon the 
roots; part of them were calculated to serve 
as a stable and yard, part as an eating-room, 
a store-room, <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr>, and as a hay-loft to keep 
our hay and provisions dry in.</p>

<p>This work was soon completed; but 
afterwards it was necessary to fill these places 
with stores of every kind for our supply 
throughout the wet season. In this task we 
engaged diligently, and went daily here and 
there with our cart to collect every thing 
useful, and that might give us employment whilst 
the weather confined us to the house.</p>

<p>One evening on our return from digging 
up potatoes, as our cart loaded with bags, 
drawn by the buffalo, ass and cow, was 
gently rolling along, seeing still a vacant place 
in the vehicle, I advised my wife to go home 
with the two youngest boys whilst I went 
round by the wood of oaks with Ernest 
and Fritz to gather as many sweet acorns as 
we could find room for. We had still some 
empty sacks. Ernest was accompanied by his 
monkey, who seldom left him; and Fritz, 
horseman like, was on his dear onagra, which 
he had appropriated to himself, inasmuch as 
he had helped to take and tame it, and 
indeed because he knew how to manage it 
better than his brothers. Ernest was too lazy, 
and preferred walking at ease with the 
monkey on his shoulder, and the more so 
because it spared him the trouble of gathering 
fruit. Jack was too giddy to be trusted alone 
on the horse, though he often got up 
behind his brother, and Francis still too little 
to attempt mounting it. Notwithstanding 
the onagra was so well broken in for riding, 
it continued to be very mettlesome and 
restive in the shafts, to which we could not 
inure it; but occasionally it submitted to 
our putting a loaded sack or two on its back; 
but we could seldom prevail even in this, 
without Fritz being seated in front; he would 
then take them to the house, and thus was 
rendered of some general use.</p>

<p>When we reached the oaks Lightfoot was 
tied to a bush, and we set actively to work 
to gather the acorns that had dropped from 
the trees. While all were busily employed, 
the monkey quitted its master’s shoulder 
and skipped unperceived into an adjoining 
bush. It had been there some time when we 
heard on that side the loud cries of birds and 
flapping of wings, and this assured us a sharp 
conflict was going on betwixt master Knips 
and the inhabitants of the bushes. I 
dispatched Ernest to reconnoitre. He went stoutly 
towards the place, and in an instant we heard 
him exclaim, Come quickly, father! a fine 
heath-fowl’s nest full of eggs; Mr. Knips, as 
usual, wished to make a meal of them; the 
hen and he are fighting for it: come quick, 
Fritz, and take her; I am holding 
greedy-chops as well as I can.</p>

<p>Fritz ran up directly, and in a few 
moments brought out alive the male and female 
heath-fowl, both very beautiful; the cock 
finely collar’d, similar to one he had killed 
on a former occasion, not without much 
regret on my part. I was rejoiced at this 
discovery, and helped my son to prevent their 
escape by tying their wings and feet, and 
holding them while he returned to the bush 
for the eggs. And now Ernest came forward 
driving the monkey before him, and carrying 
his hat with the utmost care: he had stuck 
his girdle full of narrow sharp-pointed leaves, 
in shape like a knife-blade, which reminded 
me of the production named sword-grass; 
but I did not pay much attention, as I was 
too busily engaged in our egg-hunt, and 
considered his decoration as childishness. On 
coming up to me he uncovered his hat, and 
gave it to me in a transport of joy, crying out, 
Here, dear father, here are some heath-fowl’s 
eggs; I found them in a nest so well concealed 
under these long leaves that I should not have 
observed them had not the hen, in 
defending herself against the monkey, scattered 
them about. I am going to take them 
home, they will please my mother; and these 
leaves will so amuse Francis, they are like 
swords, and will be the very thing he will like 
for a play-thing. I applauded Ernest’s 
attention to both, and I encouraged him and 
Fritz to be thus ever considerate for the 
absent, so as to prove they could never be 
forgotten. The kindnesses conferred on those 
who are separated from us have in 
themselves more merit, and are more valued, than 
those which are personally received. It was 
now time to think of moving homeward: 
my two sons filled the bags with acorns and 
put them on Lightfoot; Fritz mounted, 
Ernest carried the eggs, I took charge of the 
hen, and we proceeded to Falcon’s Stream 
followed by our train-waggon. Our good 
cattle were in such complete subjection that 
it was only necessary to speak to them. I 
remarked Ernest often applying his ear to 
the hat which held the eggs, as if he thought 
the little ones were near coming forth; I 
listened also, and observed some shells 
already broken and the young protruding: 
we were overjoyed at our good luck, and 
Fritz could not refrain from trotting on briskly 
to bear the tidings to his dear mother: 
but he went rather faster than he intended 
on setting out: he had taken a handful of 
the pointed leaves with him, which he 
whisked before the ears and eyes of the onagra, 
till the animal was frightened, lost all 
restraint, and darted forward with him like a 
shot, hurrying away bags and rider at such a 
rate that we soon lost sight of them. 
Anxious for his safety, we followed as fast as 
possible, though out of sight of him all the way; 
but on our arrival at Falcon’s Stream we had 
the satisfaction of finding him there in 
perfect safety. His mother, indeed, had been 
somewhat alarmed in seeing him dash in like 
a thunderbolt, but firmly seated betwixt the 
bags on master Lightfoot, who well 
deserved his name on this occasion, and who 
stopped short with wonderful precision at his 
stable door. Our first care was to examine 
the eggs: the female bird was too frightened 
and wild to sit upon them: fortunately we 
had a hen that was hatching; her eggs were 
immediately removed, and the new ones put 
in their place: the female heath-fowl was 
put into the parrot’s cage, and hung up in 
the room to accustom it to our society. In 
less than three days all the chickens were 
hatched, they kept close to their 
foster-mother, and ate greedily a mixture of sweet 
acorns bruised in milk, such as we gave our 
tame poultry: as they grew up I plucked 
out the large feathers of their wings, lest they 
should naturally take flight; but they and 
their real parent gradually became so 
domesticated, that they daily accompanied our 
feathered stock in search of food, and 
regularly came back at night to the roost I had 
prepared for them, and in which this little 
new colony of feathered beings seemed to 
delight.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap31" id="chap31" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER XXXI.<br/>
<small><em>Flax, and the rainy season.</em></small></h2>

<p><span class="smcap">Francis</span> for a short time was highly amused 
with his sword-leaves, and then like all 
children, who are soon tired of their toys, he 
grew weary of them, and they were thrown 
aside. Fritz picked up some of them that 
were quite soft and withered; he held up 
one which was pliable as a ribband in the 
hand: My little fellow, said he to his 
brother, you can make whips of your 
sword-grass, take up the leaves and keep them for 
this purpose, they will be of use in driving 
your goats and sheep. It had been lately 
decided that it should be the business of 
Francis to lead these to pasture.</p>

<p>Well then, help me to make them, 
said the child. They sat down together. 
Francis divided the leaves into long narrow 
slips, and Fritz ingeniously platted them into 
whip-cords. As they were working, I saw 
with pleasure the flexibility and strength of 
the bands; I examined them more closely, 
and found they were composed of long 
fibres or filaments; and this discovery led 
me to surmise that this supposed sword-grass 
might be a very different thing, and not 
improbably the flax-plant of New Zealand, 
called by naturalists <i>Chlomidia</i>, and by 
others <i>Phormion</i><sup><a id="note19text"/><a href="#note19" class="pginternal">19</a></sup>. This was a valuable 
discovery in our situation: I knew how much 
my wife wished for the production, and that 
it was the article she felt most the want of; 
I therefore hastened to communicate the 
intelligence to her, upon hearing which she 
expressed the liveliest joy: This, said she, 
is the most useful thing you have found; 
I entreat you, lose not a moment in 
searching for more of these leaves, and bring me 
the most you can of them; I will make you 
stockings, shirts, clothes, thread, ropes.....</p>

<p>In short, give me flax, looms, and frames, 
and I shall be at no loss in the employment 
of it. I could not help smiling at the scope 
she gave to her imagination, on the bare 
mention of flax, though so much was to be 
done between the gathering the leaves and 
having the cloth she was already sewing in 
idea. Fritz whispered a word in Jack’s ear; 
both went to the stable, and without asking 
my leave, one mounted Lightfoot, the other 
the buffalo, and galloped off towards the 
wood so fast that I had no time to call them 
back; they were already out of sight: their 
eagerness to oblige their mother in this 
instance pleaded their forgiveness, and I 
suffered them to go on without following them, 
purposing to proceed and bring them back if 
they did not soon return.</p>

<p>In waiting for them I conversed with my 
wife, who pointed out to me with all the 
animation and spirit of useful enterprise so 
natural to her character, the various 
machinery I must contrive for spinning and 
weaving her flax for the manufactory of 
cloths, with which she said she should be 
able to equip us from head to foot; in 
speaking of which, her eyes sparkled with 
the love of doing good, the purest kind of 
joy, and I promised her all she desired of 
me.</p>

<p>In a quarter of an hour our deserters came 
back on a full trot, and I was pleased to 
see them again; like true hussars, they had 
foraged the woods, and heavily loaded their 
cattle with the precious plant, which they 
threw at their mother’s feet with joyful 
shouts. We could not blame their abrupt 
departure. Jack made us laugh in 
recounting with his accustomed vivacity and drollery 
at what a rate he had trotted his buffalo to 
keep up with Lightfoot, and how his great 
horned horse had thrown him by a side leap; 
yet that notwithstanding these, he and his 
buffalo, as in duty and allegiance bound, 
were, as ever, at the entire command of their 
acknowledged queen. Well, said I, you 
shall then all assist her with consummate 
diligence in preparations for the work she is 
about to engage in, and previously in 
steeping the flax.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—How is flax prepared, father, and 
what is meant by steeping it?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Steeping flax, or hemp, is 
exposing it in the open air, by spreading it on 
the ground to receive the rain, the wind, and 
the dew, in order in a certain degree to 
liquefy the plant; by this means the ligneous 
or cortical parts of the flax are separated with 
more ease from the fibrous; a kind of 
vegetable glue that binds them is dissolved, and 
it can then be perfectly cleaned with great 
facility, and the parts selected which are fit 
for spinning.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—But may not the natural texture 
of this part be destroyed by exposing it so 
long to wet?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—That certainly may happen when 
the process is managed injudiciously, and 
the flax not duly turned; the risk, however, 
is not great, the fibrous part has a peculiar 
tenacity, which enables it to resist longer 
the action of humidity; flax may be even 
steeped altogether in water without injury. 
Many think this the best and quickest method, 
and I am of their opinion.</p>

<p>My wife coincided with me, especially in 
the sultry climate we inhabited: she 
therefore proposed to soak the flax in Flamingo 
Marsh, and to begin by making up the leaves 
in bundles, as they do hemp in Europe. We 
agreed to her proposal, and joined in this 
previous and necessary preparation of the flax 
during the rest of the day.</p>

<p>Next morning the ass was put to the 
small light car, loaded with bundles of leaves; 
Francis and the monkey sat on them, and 
the remainder of the family gaily followed 
with shovels and pickaxes. We stopped 
at the marsh, divided our large bundles into 
smaller, which we placed in the water, 
pressing them down with stones and leaving them 
in this state till our sovereign should direct 
us to remove and set them in the sun to dry, 
and thus render the stems soft and easy to 
peel. In the course of this work we noticed 
with admiration the instinct of the flamingoes 
in building their cone-shaped nests above the 
level of the marsh, each nest having a 
recess in the upper part, in which the eggs are 
securely deposited, while the contrivance 
enables the female to sit with her legs in the 
water: the nest is of clay closely cemented, 
so as to resist all danger from the element 
till the young can swim.</p>

<p>A fortnight after, my wife told us the flax 
was sufficiently steeped. We then took it 
out of the water, and spread it on the grass 
in the sun, where it dried so well and rapidly 
that we were able to load it on our cart the 
same evening, and carry it to Falcon’s Stream, 
where it was put by till we had time to 
attend further to it, and make beetles, wheels, 
reels, carding-combs, <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr>, as required by our 
expert and skilful flax-manufacturer. It was 
thought best to reserve this task for the 
rainy season, and to get ready what would 
be then necessary during our confinement 
within doors. Uninformed as we were as to 
the duration of this season, it was highly 
important to lay in a competent stock of 
provisions for ourselves and for all the 
animals. Occasional slight showers, the 
harbingers of winter, had already come on; the 
temperature, which hitherto had been warm 
and serene, became gloomy and variable; 
the sky was often darkened with clouds, the 
stormy winds were heard, and warned us to 
avail ourselves of the favourable moment to 
collect every thing that would be wanted.</p>

<p>Our first care was to dig up a full supply 
of potatoes and yams for bread, with plenty 
of cocoa-nuts, and some bags of sweet acorns. 
It occurred to us while digging, that the 
ground being thus opened and manured with 
the leaves of plants, we might sow in it to 
advantage the remainder of our European 
corn. Notwithstanding all the delicacies this 
stranger land afforded us, the force of habit 
still caused us to long for the bread we had 
been fed with from childhood: we had not 
yet laid ourselves out for regular tillage, and 
I was inclined to attempt the construction of 
a plough of some sort as soon as we had a 
sufficient stock of corn for sowing. For this 
time, therefore, we committed it to the earth 
with little preparation: the season, however, 
was proper for sowing and planting, as the 
ensuing rain would moisten and swell the 
embryo grain, which otherwise would perish in 
an arid burning soil. We accordingly 
expedited the planting of the various palm trees 
we had discovered in our excursions, at Tent 
House, carefully selecting the smallest and 
the youngest. In the environs was formed a 
large handsome plantation of sugar canes, so 
as to have hereafter every thing useful and 
agreeable around us, and thus be dispensed 
from the usual toil and loss of time in 
procuring them.</p>

<p>These different occupations kept us several 
weeks in unremitted activity of mind and 
body; our cart was incessantly in motion, 
conveying home our winter stock; time was 
so precious that we could not even make 
regular meals, and limited ourselves to bread, 
cheese, and fruits, in order to shorten them, 
to return quickly to our work, and dispatch 
it before the bad season should set in.</p>

<p>Unfortunately, the weather changed sooner 
than we had expected, and than, with all our 
care, we could be prepared for; before we had 
completed our winter establishment, the rain 
fell in such heavy torrents that little Francis, 
trembling, asked me whether father Noah’s 
deluge was coming on again; and I could 
not myself refrain from painful apprehension 
in surmising how we should resist such a 
body of water, that seemed to change the 
whole face of the country into a perfect lake.</p>

<p>The first thing to be done, and which 
gave us all sensations of deep concern, was to 
remove without delay our aërial abode, and 
to fix our residence at the bottom of the tree, 
between the roots and under the tarred roof I 
had erected; for it was no longer possible to 
remain above, on account of the furious winds 
that threatened to bear us away, and deluged 
our beds with rain through the large opening 
in front, our only protection here being a 
piece of sail-cloth, which was soon dripping 
wet and rent to pieces. In this condition 
we were forced to take down our hammocks, 
mattresses, and every article that could be 
injured by the rain; and most fortunate did 
we deem ourselves in having made the 
winding stairs, which sheltered us during the 
operation of the removal. The stairs served 
afterwards for a kind of lumber-room; we 
kept all in it we could dispense with, and 
most of our culinary vessels, which my wife 
fetched as she happened to want them. Our 
little sheds between the roots, constructed 
for the poultry and the cattle, could scarcely 
contain us all; and the first days we passed 
in this manner were painfully embarrassing, 
crowded all together, and hardly able to move 
in these almost dark recesses, which the fœtid 
smell from the close-adjoining animals 
rendered almost insupportable: in addition, 
we were half stifled with smoke whenever 
we kindled a fire, and drenched with rain 
when we opened the doors. For the first 
time, since our disaster, we sighed for the 
comfortable houses of our dear country:—but 
what was to be done! we were not there, 
and losing our courage and our temper would 
only increase the evil. I strove to raise the 
spirits of my companions, and obviate some 
of the inconveniences. The now doubly-precious 
winding stair was, as I have said, every 
way useful to us; the upper part of it was 
filled with numerous articles that gave us 
room below; and as it was lighted and 
sheltered by windows, my wife often worked 
there, seated on a stair, with her little Francis 
at her feet. We confined our live-stock to 
a smaller number, and gave them a freer 
current of air, dismissing from the stalls those 
animals that from their properties, and being 
natives of the country, would be at no loss 
in providing for themselves. That we might 
not lose them altogether, we tied bells round 
their necks; Fritz and I sought and drove 
them in every evening that they did not 
spontaneously return. We generally got wet 
to the skin and chilled with cold, during the 
employment, which induced my wife to 
contrive for us a kind of clothing more suitable 
to the occasion; she took two seamen’s 
shirts from the chest we had recovered from 
the wreck; and then, with some pieces of 
old coats, she made us a kind of cloth hoods 
joined together at the back, and well formed 
for covering the head entirely: we melted 
some elastic gum, which we spread over 
the shirts and hoods; and the articles thus 
prepared answered every purpose of 
water-proof overalls, that were of essential use and 
comfort to us. Our young rogues were ready 
with their derision the first time they saw us 
in them; but afterwards they would have 
been rejoiced to have had the same: this, 
however, the reduced state of our gum did 
not allow, and we contented ourselves with 
wearing them in turn, when compelled to 
work in the rain, from the bad effects of 
which they effectually preserved us.</p>

<p>As to the smoke, our only remedy was 
to open the door when we made a fire; and 
we did without as much as we could, living 
on milk and cheese, and never making a fire 
but to bake our cakes: we then availed 
ourselves of the opportunity to boil a quantity 
of potatoes and salt meat enough to last us 
a number of days. Our dry wood was also 
nearly expended, and we thanked Heaven 
the weather was not very cold; for had this 
been the case our other trials would have 
much increased. A more serious concern 
was our not having provided sufficient hay 
and leaves for our European cattle, which we 
necessarily kept housed to avoid losing them; 
the cow, the ass, the sheep, and the goats, 
the two last of which were increased in 
number, required a large quantity of provender, 
so that we were ere long forced to give them 
our potatoes and sweet acorns, which by the 
by they found very palatable, and we 
remarked that they imparted a delicate flavour 
to their milk;—the cow, the goats, and even 
the sheep, amply supplied us with that 
precious article: milking, cleaning the animals 
and preparing their food, occupied us most 
of the morning, after which we were usually 
employed in making flour of the manioc 
root, with which we filled the large gourds, 
which were previously placed in rows. The 
gloom of the atmosphere and our low 
windowless habitation sensibly abridged our 
daylight; fortunately, we had laid in a huge 
store of candles, and felt no want of that 
article: when darkness obliged us to light 
up, we got round the table, when a large 
taper fixed on a gourd gave us an excellent 
light, which enabled my wife to pursue her 
occupation with the needle, while I, on my 
part, was forming a journal and recording 
what the reader has perused of the narrative 
of our shipwreck and residence in this island, 
assisted from time to time by my sons and 
their admirable mother, who did not cease 
to remind me of various incidents belonging 
to the story. To Ernest, who wrote a fine 
hand, was intrusted the care of writing off my 
pages in a clear legible character; Fritz and 
Jack amused themselves by drawing from 
memory the plants and animals which had 
most struck their observation; while one 
and all contributed to teach little Francis to 
read and write: we concluded the day with 
a devotional reading in the Holy Bible, 
performed by each in turn, and we then retired to 
rest, happy in ourselves, and in the innocent 
and peaceful course of our existence. Our 
kind and faithful steward often surprised us 
agreeably on our return from looking after 
the cattle, by lighting up a faggot of dried 
bamboo, and quickly roasting by the clear and 
fervent heat it produced, a chicken, pigeon, 
duck, or penguin from our poultry-yard, or 
some of the thrushes we had preserved in 
butter, which were excellent, and welcomed 
as a treat to reward extraordinary toil. Every 
four or five days the kind creature made us 
new fresh butter in the gourd-churn; and 
this with some deliciously fragrant honey 
spread on our manioc cakes, formed a 
collation that would have raised the envy of 
European epicures. These unexpected regales 
represented to our grateful hearts so many 
little festivals, the generous intention of 
which made us forget our bad 
accommodations and confinement.</p>

<p>The fragments of our meals belonged in 
right to our domestic animals, as part of the 
family. We had now four dogs, the young 
jackal, the eagle, and the monkey, to feed; 
they relied with just confidence on the 
kindness of their respective masters, who 
certainly would have deprived themselves to 
supply the wants of their helpless 
dependents. Francis had taken under his mighty 
protection the two little bull-dogs; my wife 
Ponto, and I the brave Turk:—thus each 
had his attendant, of which he took care, and 
no one was dispensed from the offices of 
tenderness and vigilance. If the buffalo, the 
onagra, and pig had not found sustenance 
abroad, they must have been killed or 
starved, and that would have given us much 
pain. In the course of these discomforts it 
was unanimously resolved on, that we would 
not pass another rainy season exposed to the 
same evils; even my beloved consort, who 
felt such a predilection for the abode at 
Falcon’s Stream, was frequently a little ruffled 
and out of temper with our inconvenient 
situation, and insisted more than any of us 
on the propriety of building elsewhere a 
more spacious winter residence: she wished, 
however, to return to our castle in the tree 
every summer, and we all joined with her 
in that desire. The choice of a fresh abode 
now engrossed our attention, and Fritz in 
the midst of consultation came forward 
triumphantly with a book he had found in the 
bottom of our clothes’ chest. Here, said he, 
is our best counsellor and model, <i>Robinson 
Crusoe</i>; since Heaven has destined us to a 
similar fate, whom better can we consult? 
as far as I remember, he cut himself an 
habitation out of the solid rock: let us see 
how he proceeded; we will do the same and 
with greater ease, for he was alone; we are 
six in number, and four of us able to work. 
Well spoken, son, said I: this activity and 
courage give me pleasure; let us then strive 
to be as ingenious as Robinson Crusoe.</p>

<p>And why not? observed Jack—Have we 
not an island, rocks, and tools from abroad 
as good as he had, and, as brother Fritz 
says, more hands to use them?</p>

<p>We assembled, and read the famous 
history with an ardent interest; it seemed 
though so familiar, quite new to us: we 
entered earnestly into every detail and derived 
considerable information from it, and never 
failed to feel lively gratitude towards God 
who had rescued us all together, and not 
permitted one only of us to be cast a solitary 
being on the island. The occurrence of this 
thought produced an overwhelming sense of 
affection among us, and we could not refrain 
from throwing ourselves into each others 
arms, embracing repeatedly, and the pathetic 
scene ended in mutual congratulations.</p>

<p>Francis repeated his wish to have a Man 
Friday; Fritz thought it better to be without 
such a companion, and to have no savages to 
contend with. Jack was for the savages, 
warfare and encounters. The final result of 
our deliberations was to go and survey the 
rocks round Tent-House, and to examine 
whether any of them could be excavated for 
our purpose.</p>

<p>Our last job for the winter, undertaken 
at my wife’s solicitation, was a beetle for her 
flax and some carding-combs. I filed large 
nails till they were even, round, and 
pointed; I fixed them at equal distances in a sheet 
of tin, and raised the sides of it like a box; 
I then poured melted lead between the nails 
and the sides, to give firmness to their points, 
which came out four inches. I nailed this 
tin on a board, and the machine was fit for 
work. My wife was impatient to use it; and 
the drying, peeling, and spinning her flax, 
became from this time a source of inexhaustible 
delight.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap32" id="chap32" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER XXXII.<br/>
<small><em>Spring;—spinning;—salt mine.</em></small></h2>

<p><span class="smcap">I can</span> hardly describe our joy when, after 
many tedious and gloomy weeks of rain, the 
sky began to brighten, the sun to dart its 
benign rays on the humid earth, the winds 
to be lulled, and the state of the air became 
mild and serene. We issued from our 
dreary hovels with joyful shouts, and 
walked round our habitation breathing the 
enlivening balmy ether, while our eyes were 
regaled with the beauteous verdure beginning 
to shoot forth on every side. Reviving nature 
opened her arms, every creature seemed 
reanimated, and we felt the genial influence 
of that glorious luminary which had been so 
long concealed from our sight, now 
returned like a friend who has been absent, to bring 
us back blessings and delight. We rapidly 
forgot in new sensations the embarrasments 
and weary hours of the wet season, and with 
jocund, hopeful hearts, looked forward to 
the toils of summer as enviable amusements.</p>

<p>The vegetation of our plantation of trees 
was rapidly advancing; the seed we had thrown 
into the ground was sprouting in slender 
blades that waved luxuriantly; a pleasing 
tender foliage adorned the trees; the earth 
was enamelled with an infinite variety of 
flowers, whose agreeable tints diversified the 
verdure of the meadows. Odorous 
exhalations were diffused through the atmosphere; 
the song of birds was heard around; they were 
seen between the leaves joyfully fluttering from 
branch to branch; their various forms and 
brilliant plumage heightened this delightful 
picture of the most beautiful spring, and we 
were at once struck with wonder and 
penetrated with gratitude towards the Creator of 
so many beauties. Under these impressions 
we celebrated the ensuing Sunday in the open 
air, and with stronger emotions of piety than 
we had hitherto felt on the fertile shores 
upon which we had been so miraculously saved 
and fostered. The blessings which 
surrounded us were ample compensation for some 
uneasy moments which had occasionally 
intervened, and our hearts, filled with fresh 
zeal, were resolved to be resigned, if it 
should be the will of God, to pass the 
residue of our days in this solitude with serenity 
of soul and every due exertion. The force of 
paternal feelings, no doubt, made me 
sometimes form other wishes for my children; 
but these I buried in my own breast, for fear 
of disturbing their tranquillity: but if I 
secretly indulged a desire for some event that 
might prolong and even increase their 
happiness, I nevertheless wholly submitted all to 
the Divine will, the manifestation of which 
I awaited in becoming thankfulness and 
patience.</p>

<p>Our summer occupations commenced by 
arranging and thoroughly cleaning Falcon’s 
Nest, the order and neatness of which the 
rain and dead leaves blown by the wind had 
disturbed: in other respects, however, it was 
not injured, and in a few days we rendered 
it completely fit for our reception; the stairs 
were cleared, the rooms between the roots 
re-occupied, and we were left with leisure to 
proceed to other employments. My wife 
lost not a moment in resuming the process 
of her flax concern. Our sons hastened to 
lead the cattle to the fresh pastures, already 
dried by the sun; whilst it was my task to 
carry the bundles of flax into the open air, 
whereby heaping stones together I contrived 
an oven sufficiently commodious to dry it 
well. The same evening we all set to work 
to peel, and afterwards to beat it and strip 
off the bark, and lastly to comb it with my 
carding machine, which fully answered the 
purpose. I took this somewhat laborious 
task on myself, and drew out such distaffs 
full of long soft flax ready for spinning, that 
my enraptured wife ran to embrace me, to 
express her heartfelt acknowledgement, 
requesting me to make her a wheel without 
delay, that she might enter upon her favourite 
work.</p>

<p>At an earlier period of my life I had 
practised turnery for my amusement; now, 
however, I was unfortunately destitute of the 
requisite utensils; but as I had not forgotten 
the arrangement and component parts of a 
spinning-wheel and reel, I by repeated 
endeavours found means to accomplish those 
two machines to her satisfaction; and she fell 
so eagerly to spinning, as to allow herself no 
leisure even for a walk, and scarcely time to 
dress our dinners: nothing so much 
delighted her as to be left with her little boy, whom 
she employed to reel as fast as she could 
spin, and sometimes the other three were 
also engaged in turns at the wheel, to 
forward her business whilst she was occupied 
in culinary offices; but not one of them 
was found so tractable as the cool-tempered 
quiet Ernest, who preferred this to more 
laborous exertions, though such was our want 
of linen and clothes, that we ought all 
readily and even eagerly to have joined in 
procuring them; but our excursions, and the 
necessary liberty they involved, were more 
agreeable to us than this female occupation. 
Our first visit was to Tent-House, as we 
were anxious to ascertain the ravages of 
winter there, and we found them much more 
considerable than at Falcon’s Stream, and 
even dreadful: the tempest and rain had 
beaten down the tent, carried away a part of 
the sail-cloth, and made such havoc amongst 
our provisions, that by far the largest portion 
of them was spotted with mildew, and the 
remainder could be only saved by drying 
them instantly. Luckily, our handsome 
pinnace had been for the most part spared; it 
was still at anchor, ready to serve us in case 
of need; but our tub-boat was in too 
shattered a state to be of any further service.</p>

<p>In looking over the stores we were grieved 
to find the gunpowder most damaged, of which 
I had left three barrels in the tent instead 
of placing them in a more sheltered 
situation in the cavity of the rock. The contents 
of two were rendered wholly useless. I 
thought myself fortunate on finding the 
remaining one in tolerable condition, and 
derived from this great and irreparable loss a 
cogent motive to fix upon winter quarters 
where our stores and wealth would not be 
exposed to such cruel dilapidations.</p>

<p>Notwithstanding the gigantic plan 
suggested by the enterprising characters of Fritz 
and Jack, I had little hope of being able to 
effect the excavation of a dwelling in the side 
of the rock. Robinson Crusoe is supposed 
to have found a spacious cavern that merely 
required arrangement; no such cavity was 
apparent in our rock, which bore the aspect 
of primitive existence, and was of extreme 
hardness; so that with our limited powers, 
three or four summers would scarcely suffice 
to execute the design. Still, the earnest 
desire of a more substantial habitation to 
defend us from the elements, perplexed me 
incessantly, and I resolved to make at least the 
attempt of cutting out a recess that should 
contain the gunpowder, the most valuable 
of all our treasures; by which means it would 
be secured against injury from the vicissitudes 
of the weather. With this resolution I set 
off one day, accompanied by my two valiant 
workmen Fritz and Jack, leaving their mother 
at her spinning with her assistants 
Ernest and Francis. We took with us 
pickaxes, chisels, hammers, and iron levers, to 
try what impression we could make on the 
rock. I chose a part nearly perpendicular, 
and much better situated than our tent: the 
view from it was enchanting; for it embraced 
the whole range of Safety Bay, the banks of 
Jackal’s Stream and Family Bridge, and 
many of the picturesque projections of the 
rocks. I marked out with charcoal the 
circumference of the opening we wished to 
make, and we began the heavy toil of 
piercing the quarry. We made so little progress 
the first day, that in spite of all our courage 
we were tempted to relinquish the 
undertaking; we persevered however, and my 
hope was somewhat revived as I perceived 
the stone was of a softer texture as we 
penetrated deeper: we concluded from this, that 
the ardent rays of the sun striking upon the 
rock had hardened the external layer, and 
that the stone within would increase in 
softness as we advanced, and we admitted a ray 
of hope that the substance would prove to be 
a species of calcareous stone. When I had 
cut about a foot in depth, we could loosen it 
with the spade like dried mud; this 
determined me to proceed with double ardour, 
and my boys assisted me in the task with a 
zeal beyond their years.</p>

<p>After a few days of assiduous labour we 
measured the opening, and found we had 
already advanced seven feet into the rock. 
Fritz removed the fragments in a barrow, 
and discharged them in a line before the 
place to form a sort of terrace; I applied my 
own labour to the upper part to enlarge the 
aperture; Jack, the smallest of the three, 
was able to get in and cut away below. He 
had with him a long iron bar sharpened at 
the end, which he drove in with a hammer 
to loosen a large piece; suddenly he bawled 
out: It is pierced through, father! Fritz, I 
have pierced it through!</p>

<p>Hah, hah, master Jack at his jokes again!—But 
let us hear, what have you pierced? 
Is it the mountain? Not peradventure your 
hand or foot, Jack? cried I:</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—No, no, it is the mountain; (the 
rocks resounding with his usual shout of joy) 
huzza, huzza, I have pierced the mountain!</p>

<p>Fritz now ran to him. Come, let us see 
then; it is no doubt the globe at least you 
have pierced, said he, in a bantering tone: 
you should have pushed on your tool boldly, 
till you reached Europe, which they say is 
under our feet; I should have been glad to 
peep into that hole.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—Well, then, peep you may, I can 
assure you, but I hardly know what you will 
see; now come and look how far the iron is 
gone in, and tell me if it is all my boasting;—if 
there were not a hollow space behind, 
how could it penetrate the rock so easily?</p>

<p>Come hither, father, said Fritz, this is 
really extraordinary; his iron bar seems to 
have got to a hollow place; see, it can be 
moved in every direction. I approached, 
thinking the incident worth attention: I took 
hold of the bar, which was still in the rock, 
and pressing it forcibly from one side to 
another, I made a sufficient aperture for one 
of my sons to pass, and I observed that in 
reality the rubbish fell within the cavity, the 
extent of which I could not ascertain, but I 
judged from the falling of the stones that it 
was not much deeper than the part we stood 
on. My two lads offered to go in together 
and examine it: this, however, I firmly 
opposed: I even made them remove from the 
opening, as I smelled the mephitic air that 
issued abundantly from it, and began myself to 
feel giddiness in consequence of having gone 
too near; so that I was compelled to 
withdraw quickly, and inhale a purer air. 
Beware, my dear children, said I in terror, of 
entering such a perilous cavern; life might be 
suddenly extinguished there.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—What, lose our lives, father! do 
you think then it contains lions or tigers? 
Only give me a gun, and let me speak a 
word to them.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—How can you think such animals 
could live there? Father may indeed fear 
that it is inhabited by serpents or vipers.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—And what should hinder us, pray, 
from killing serpents and vipers?</p>

<p>I admire, said I, your courage, my brave 
Jack, but it shall not be tried on this 
occasion. Neither lions, serpents, nor men are 
there, yet the danger still exists: how would 
my young hero acquit himself, when on 
entering the aperture he should feel his 
respiration totally cease?</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—Not be able to breathe! and why 
not?</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Because the air is mephitic, that 
is, foul, and therefore unfit for breathing in, 
and those who are exposed to it must of 
course be suffocated. But in what manner, 
father, is this air corrupted?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—In different ways: for example, 
when it is replete with noxious vapours, or 
when it contains too many igneous or 
inflammable particles, or when it is too heavy or 
dense, as fixed air is; but in general, when 
it merely loses its elasticity, it no longer 
passes freely into the lungs; respiration is 
then stopped, and suffocation speedily ensues, 
because air is indispensable to life and the 
circulation of the blood.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—Then all to be done is to be 
off quickly when one feels a stoppage of 
breath.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—This is certainly the natural course 
when it can be taken; but the attack usually 
begins by a vertigo or dizziness of the head, 
so violent as to intercept motion, which is 
followed by an insurmountable oppression; 
efforts are made to breathe, fainting follows, 
and without speedy help, a sudden death 
takes place.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—What assistance can be 
administered?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—The first thing to be done is to 
remove the person so affected to pure fresh 
air, and to throw cold water over his body; 
he must then be well dried, and afterwards 
rubbed with warm cloths; vital air must be 
infused, or tobacco-smoke thrown up; in 
short, he must be treated like a drowned 
person till signs of re-animation appear, which 
is not always the result.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—But why do you think, father, 
the air in this cavern is mephitic, as you term 
it, or dangerous to breathe in?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—All air confined and wholly 
separated from that of the atmosphere, 
gradually loses its elasticity, and can no longer 
pass through the lungs: in this state it 
generates injurious qualities that interrupt the 
process of respiration. It is in this act that the 
atmospheric air diffused around us, unites 
intimately with the blood, to which it 
communicates one of its most essential parts, 
called vital air, for without it life cannot be 
supported. This air failing, respiration ceases, 
and death succeeds in a few minutes: the 
consequence is similar when this air is 
impregnated too abundantly with injurious parts.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—And by what is good air known? 
How judge that one may respire freely at a 
few paces from this mephitic cave?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—This becomes evident when 
inspiration and expiration are performed with 
ease; besides, there is an infallible test: fire 
does not burn in foul air, yet it is made the 
means of correcting it. We must light a fire 
of sufficient strength in this hole to purify the 
air within, and render it friendly to 
respiration: at first the bad air will extinguish the 
fire, but by degrees the fire in its turn will 
expel the bad air and burn freely.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Oh! if that is all, it is an easy 
matter. As soon as the foul air is out, we 
can make a huge opening, and walk about 
in the whole interior as if it were a level plain. 
The boys now hastened to gather some dry 
grass, which they made into bundles; they 
then struck a light, and set fire to them, and 
threw the moss blazing into the opening; 
but, as I had described, the fire was 
extinguished at the very entrance, thus proving 
that the air within was highly mephitic. I 
now saw that it was to be rarefied by another 
and more effectual method; I recollected 
opportunely, that we had brought from the 
vessel a chest which had belonged to the 
artificer, and had put it by in the tent, and that 
it was full of granadoes and rockets, of which 
and other fire-works a number had been 
shipped for the purpose of making signals 
as well as for amusement. I sought this 
chest hastily, and took out of it some of the 
most requisite materials, and an iron mortar 
for the purpose of throwing them into the 
hollow: with these I speedily returned to 
attack with my artillery the aërial demons: I 
threw the whole in, with a train that 
extended to where we stood, and thus ignited the 
space. A general explosion took place, and 
an awful report reverberated through the dark 
recess; the granadoes flew about on all sides 
like brilliant meteors; we hurled them back 
to the extremity of the cavern, they 
rebounded and burst with a terrific sound. We then 
sent in the rockets, which had also a full 
effect; they hissed in the cavity like flying 
dragons, disclosing to our astonished view its 
vast extent. We beheld too, as we thought, 
numerous dazzling bodies that sparkled 
suddenly, as if by magic, and disappeared with 
the rapidity of lightning, leaving the place 
wrapped in the most profound obscurity. A 
squib bursting in the form of a star 
presented a spectacle we wished to be prolonged. 
On its separating, a crowd of little winged 
genii came forth, each holding a small 
lighted lamp, and the whole fluttering in every 
direction with a thousand varied 
reverberations: every thing in the cavern shone 
brilliantly, and offered instantly a truly 
enchanting sight; but they dropped in succession, 
fell to the ground without noise, and 
vanished like æthereal spirits.</p>

<p>After having played off our fire-works, I 
tried lighted straw: to our great satisfaction, 
the bundles thrown in were entirely 
consumed; we could then reasonably hope 
nothing was to be feared from the air; but 
there still remained the danger of plunging 
into some abyss, or of meeting with a body 
of water: from these considerations I 
deemed it more prudent to defer our entrance into 
this unknown recess till we had lights to 
guide us through it. I dispatched Jack on 
the buffalo to Falcon’s Stream, to impart 
our discovery to his mother and two brothers, 
directing him to return with them, and bring 
all the tapers that were left: my intention 
was to fasten them together on a stick, and 
form therewith a large torch, and thus 
illuminated, proceed with our whole troop to 
examine the interior of this grotto. I had 
not sent Jack on his embassy without a 
meaning; the boy possessed from nature a lively 
and poetical imagination: I knew he would 
tell his mother such wonders of the 
enchanted grotto, of the fire-works, and all they had 
brought to our view, that in spite of the 
charms of her spinning-wheel he would 
induce her to accompany him without delay, 
and bring us lights to penetrate the obscure 
sanctuary.</p>

<p>Overjoyed at his commission, Jack sprang 
on the buffalo, which he had nearly 
appropriated to himself, gaily smacked his whip, 
and set off so boldly that I almost trembled 
for his safety. The rash intrepid boy was 
unincumbered by fear, and made a complete 
race-horse of his horned Bucephalus.</p>

<p>In waiting his coming back, I proposed to 
Fritz to widen the entrance to the 
subterraneous grotto, to remove the rubbish, and 
make a way for his mother to pass in easily. 
After labouring three or four hours we saw 
them coming up in our car of state,—the one 
I had equipped for the potatoes,—and which 
was now drawn by the cow and the ass, and 
conducted by Ernest. Francis too played 
his part in the cavalcade, and contended with 
his brother for the ropes that served as reins. 
Jack, mounted on his buffalo, came prancing 
before them, blew through his closed hand 
in imitation of a French horn, and now and 
then whipped the ass and cow to quicken 
their motion. When they had crossed Family 
Bridge, he came forward on the gallop; and 
when he got up to us, jumped off the beast, 
shook himself, took a spring or two from the 
ground, and thus refreshed, ran up to the 
car to hand his mother out like a true and 
gallant knight.</p>

<p>I immediately lighted my torches; but 
instead of tying them together as I had 
intended, I preferred each taking one in his right 
hand, an implement in his left in case of 
accident, a taper in his pocket, flint and steel; 
and thus we entered the rock in solemn 
procession. I took the lead, my sons followed 
me, and their beloved mother with the 
youngest brought up the rear, her interest and 
curiosity not unalloyed with tender 
apprehensions; and indeed I felt myself that sort 
of fear which an unknown object is apt to 
excite: even our dogs that accompanied us 
betrayed some timidity, and did not run 
before as usual; but we had scarcely advanced 
four paces within the grotto, when all was 
changed to more than admiration and 
surprise. The most beautiful and magnificent 
spectacle presented itself. The sides of the 
cavern sparkled like diamonds, the light from 
our six tapers was reflected from all parts, 
and had the effect of a grand illumination. 
Innumerable crystals of every length and 
shape hung from the top of the vault, which, 
uniting with those of the sides, formed pillars, 
altars, entablatures, and a variety of other 
figures, constituting the most splendid 
masses. We might have fancied ourselves in the 
palace of a fairy, or in an illumined temple. 
In some places all the colours of the prism 
were emitted from the angles of the crystals, 
and gave them the appearance of the finest 
precious stones. The waving of the lights, 
their bright coruscations, dark points here 
and there occurring, the dazzling lustre of 
others—the whole, in short, delighted and 
enchanted the sight and the fancy.</p>

<p>The astonishment of my family was so 
great as to be almost ludicrous; they were 
all in a kind of dumb stupor, half imagining 
it was a dream: I had seen stalactites and 
read the description of the famous grotto of 
Antiparos, far more considerable than this, 
which, however, gave an idea of it. The 
bottom was level, covered with a white 
and very fine sand, as if purposely strewed, 
and so dry that I could not see the least 
mark of humidity anywhere. All this led me 
to hope the spot would be healthy, 
convenient, and eligible for our proposed residence.</p>

<p>I now formed a particular conjecture as to 
the nature of the crystallizations shooting 
out on all sides, and especially from the 
arch roof; they could scarcely be of that species 
of rock crystals produced by the slow 
filtering of water falling in drops and coagulating 
in succession, and seldom found in 
excavations exhibiting so dry a nature, nor ever 
with so many of the crystals perpendicular 
and perfectly smooth. I was impatient to 
evince the truth or falsehood of my opinion 
by an experiment, and discovered with great 
joy, on breaking a portion of one of them, 
that I was in a grotto of sal gem, that is, 
fossil or rock salt<sup><a id="note20text"/><a href="#note20" class="pginternal">20</a></sup>, found in the earth in 
solid crystallized masses, generally above a 
bed of spar or gypsum, and surrounded by 
layers of fossils or rock. The discovery of 
this fact, which no longer admitted a doubt, 
pleased us all exceedingly. The shape of 
the crystals, their little solidity, and finally 
their saline taste, were decisive evidences.</p>

<p>How highly advantageous to us and our 
cattle was this superabundance of salt, pure 
and ready to be shovelled out for use, and 
preferable in all respects to what we 
collected on the shore, which required to be 
refined!</p>

<p>My wife was charmed with my good 
fortune in having cut through the rock at 
this spot. I observed, that in all probability 
the mine extended a long way, and that I 
should have discovered salt had I opened 
at any other part, though such a wonderful 
grotto might not have been found every 
where.</p>

<p>Little Francis said to his brothers in a 
whisper, that it was certainly the palace of 
some good fairy, who would come with her 
wand and grant them every thing they 
wished for, if they were good. Well then, said 
Jack, I ask her to make you a little wiser and 
less credulous; don’t you hear father say all 
these diamonds are only salt? and how often 
has he told you that God alone does 
wonders? The dear child said no more, but 
shook his pretty fair locks as if he gave up 
his enchanted palace with some reluctance; 
and to say the truth, his notion did not 
surprise me. As we advanced in the grotto, 
remarkable figures formed by the saline 
matter every where presented themselves; 
columns reaching from the bottom to the top 
of the vault appeared to sustain it, and some 
even had cornices and capitals: here and 
there undulating masses which at certain 
distances resembled the sea. From the 
variegated and whimsical forms we beheld, 
fancy might make a thousand creations at 
its pleasure; windows, large open cupboards, 
benches, church ornaments, grotesque 
figures of men and animals; some like 
polished crystals or diamonds, others like blocks of 
alabaster.</p>

<p>We viewed with unwearied curiosity this 
repository of wonders, and we had all 
lighted our second taper, when I observed on 
the ground in some places a number of 
crystal fragments that seemed to have fallen off 
from the upper part. Such a separation might 
recur and expose us to danger; a piece 
falling on any of our heads might prove 
instantly fatal: but on closer inspection I was 
convinced they had not dropped of themselves 
spontaneously; the whole mass was too 
solid for fragments of that size to have been 
so detached from it; and had dampness 
loosened them they would have dissolved 
gradually: I rationally concluded they were 
broken off by the explosion of our artillery 
and fire-works, that had caused a violent 
concussion in this subterraneous palace. 
However, I thought it prudent to retire, as other 
loosened pieces might unexpectedly fall on 
us. I directed my wife and three of the 
children to place themselves in the entrance, 
while Fritz and I carefully examined every 
part that threatened danger. We loaded our 
guns with ball and fired them in the centre of 
the cavern, to be more fully assured of what 
produced the separation of the former pieces; 
one or two more fell, the rest remained 
immovable, though we went round with long 
poles and struck all we could reach. We at 
length felt confident that in point of solidity 
there was nothing to fear, and that we might 
proceed to fit up our new habitation without 
dread of accident. Our joy on this 
important discovery did not fully declare itself till 
after these trials. Loud exclamations, mixed 
with numerously varied questions, projects, 
consultations, now succeeded to our mute 
astonishment! Many schemes were formed 
for converting this beautiful grotto into a 
convenient and agreeable mansion for our abode. 
All the force of our imagination was centred 
in that point: the greatest difficulty was 
removed; we had possession of the most 
eligible premises; the sole business now was to 
turn them to the best account, and how to 
effect this was our unceasing theme: some 
voted for our immediate establishment there, 
but they were opposed by more sagacious 
counsel, and it was resolved that Falcon’s 
Stream should continue to be our head 
quarters till the end of the year.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap33" id="chap33" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER XXXIII.<br/>
<small><em>House in the salt-rock;—herring fishery.</em></small></h2>

<p><span class="smcap">The</span> lucky discovery of a previously-existing 
cavern in the rock, had, as must be 
supposed, considerably lessened our labour: 
excavation was no longer requisite: I had more 
room than was wanted for the construction 
of our dwelling; to render it habitable was 
the present object, and to do this did not 
seem a difficult task. The upper bed of the 
rock in front of the cavern, through which 
my little Jack had dug so easily, was of a 
soft nature, and to be worked with moderate 
effort. I hoped also that, being now exposed 
to the air and heat of the sun, it would 
become by degrees as hard and compact as the 
first layer that had given me so much 
trouble. From this consideration I began, while 
it retained its soft state, to make openings for 
the door and windows of the front. This I 
regulated by the measurement of those I had 
fixed in my winding stair-case, which I had 
removed for the purpose of placing them in 
our winter tenement. Intending Falcon’s 
Nest in future as a rural retreat for the 
hottest days of summer, the windows of the 
stair-case became unnecessary; and as to the 
door, I preferred making one of bark similar 
to that of the tree itself, as it would conceal 
our abode the better, should we at any time 
experience invasion from savages or other 
enemies: the doors and windows were 
therefore taken to Tent-house, and afterwards 
properly fixed in the rock. I had previously 
marked out the openings to be cut for the 
frames, which were received into grooves for 
greater convenience and solidity. I took 
care not to break the stone taken from the 
apertures, or at least to preserve it in large 
pieces, and these I cut with the saw and 
chisel into oblongs an inch and half in thickness, 
to serve as tiles. I laid them in the sun, and 
was gratified in seeing they hardened 
quickly; I then removed them, and my sons 
placed them in order against the side of the 
rock till they were wanted for our internal 
arrangements.</p>

<p>When I could enter the cavern freely 
through a good door-way, and it was 
sufficiently lighted by the windows, I erected a 
partition for the distribution of our 
apartments and other conveniences. The extent 
of the place afforded ample room for my 
design, and even allowed me to leave several 
spaces in which salt and other articles could 
be stored. At the request of my children, 
I was cautious to injure as little as possible 
the natural embellishments of this new 
family mansion; but with all my care, I could 
not avoid demolishing them in the division 
allotted to the stables:—cattle are fond of salt, 
and would not have failed to eat away these 
ornaments, and perhaps in a prejudicial 
quantity: however, to gratify and reward my 
obedient children, I preserved the finest of 
the pillars and the most beautiful pieces to 
decorate our saloon. The large ones served 
us for chairs and tables, and the brilliant 
pilasters at once enlivened and adorned the 
apartment, and at night multiplied the 
reflection of the lights. I laid out the interior 
in the following manner:—A very 
considerable space was first partitioned off in two 
divisions; the one on the right was 
appropriated to our residence; that on the left was to 
contain the kitchen, stables, and work-room. 
At the end of the second division, where 
windows could not be placed, the cellar and 
store-room were to be formed; the whole 
separated by partition boards, with doors of 
communication, so as to give us a pleasant 
and comfortable abode. Favoured so 
unexpectedly by what nature had already effected 
of the necessary labour, we were far from 
repining ungratefully at what remained to be 
done, and entertained full hope of 
completing the undertaking, or at least the chief 
parts, before winter.</p>

<p>The side we designed to lodge in, was 
divided into three chambers; the first, next 
the door, was the bed-room for my wife and 
me, the second a dining-parlour, and the last 
a bed-chamber for the boys. As we had 
only three windows, we put one in each 
sleeping-room; the third was fixed in the 
kitchen, where my wife would often be. A 
grating for the present fell to the lot of our 
dining-room, which, when too cold, was to 
be exchanged for one of the other 
apartments. I contrived a good fire-place in the 
kitchen near the window; I pierced the rock 
a little above, and four planks nailed together 
and passed through this opening answered 
the purpose of a chimney. We made the 
work-room near the kitchen, of sufficient 
dimensions for the performance of undertakings 
of some magnitude; it served also to keep 
our cart and sledge in: lastly, the stables, 
which were formed into four compartments 
to separate the different species of animals, 
occupied all the bottom of the cavern on this 
side; on the other were the cellar and 
magazine.</p>

<p>It is readily imagined that a plan of this 
extent was not to be executed as if by 
enchantment, and that we satisfied ourselves in 
the first instance with doing what was most 
urgent, reserving the residue of our 
arrangements for winter; yet every day forwarded 
the business more than we had been aware 
of. On every excursion, we brought 
something from Falcon’s Stream, that found its 
place in the new house, where we deposited 
likewise in safety the remaining provisions 
from the tent.</p>

<p>The long stay we made at Tent-House 
during these employments, furnished us an 
opportunity of perceiving several advantages 
we had not reckoned upon, and which we 
did not defer availing ourselves of. Immense 
turtles were very often seen on the shore, 
where they deposited their eggs in the sand, 
and they regaled us with a rich treat; but, 
extending our wishes, we thought of getting 
possession of the turtles themselves for live 
stock, and of feasting on them whenever we 
pleased. As soon as we saw one on the 
sands, one of my boys was dispatched to cut 
off its retreat; meanwhile we approached 
the animal, quickly and quietly without 
doing it any injury turned it on its back, 
passed a long cord through the shell and 
tied the end of it to a stake, which we fixed 
close to the edge of the water. This done, 
we set the prisoner on his legs again; it 
hastened into the sea, but could not go 
beyond the length of the cord: apparently it 
was all the happier, finding food with more 
facility along shore than out at sea; and we 
enjoyed the idea of being able to take it 
when wanted. I say nothing of sea-lobsters, 
oysters, and many other small fishes which 
we could catch in any number. We at 
length got used to and to like oysters, and 
occasionally had a treat of them. The large 
lobsters, whose flesh was tough and coarse, 
were given to the dogs, who preferred them 
to potatoes; but we shortly after became 
possessors of another excellent winter 
provision which chance unexpectedly procured 
us.</p>

<p>We left Falcon’s Stream very early one 
morning; when near Safety Bay we 
observed at some distance in the sea, a singular 
sort of spectacle which we had not before 
witnessed, though we had gone that way so 
many times. An extensive surface of the 
water seemed in a state of ebullition as if 
heated by a subterraneous fire; it swelled, 
subsided, foaming like boiling water: a 
large number of aquatic birds hovered over 
it, gulls, man of war birds, boobies, 
albatrosses, and a crowd of others we were 
strangers to, whose shrill cries pierced our 
ears; the feathered throng were in motion: 
sometimes they darted along the surface of 
the water, sometimes rose in the air, flying 
in a circle, pursuing each other in every 
direction; we were at a loss to judge whether 
sportiveness, pleasure or warfare produced 
their varied flights. The space too of 
seemingly boiling surface exhibited a 
peculiar aspect; small lights issued from it on 
all sides like flames disappearing and 
rekindling every moment. We perceived also that 
the motion of this part was from the main sea 
towards the land, and particularly Safety 
Bay, whither we hastened to examine this 
phenomenon. On our way we formed a 
thousand conjectures about it: my wife had 
accompanied us for the purpose of arranging 
the provisions in the new magazines; she 
supposed it to be merely a large sand bank, 
to which the tide gave the semblance of 
motion, and which by reflecting the beauteous 
tints of aurora, imparted a flame colour to 
the waves and caused an optical deception. 
This was too simple a solution for the vivid 
imagination of Fritz, who maintained that 
something extraordinary was operating at 
the bottom of the deep; some secret fire 
seeking a vent, or perhaps an earthquake; 
possibly the approaching irruption of a fresh 
volcano somewhere. Ernest strongly 
controverted this idea: The birds, said he, would 
instinctively fly from the spot, instead of 
collecting in heaps over it and gaily fluttering, 
so as to excite the surmise of there being 
another body in the air as large and as 
agitated as that in the sea: see how they plunge 
into it, said he; were the water hot, as Fritz 
thinks, they would scald their feet and beaks. 
The latter had little to say in reply; Well 
then, said he, tell us, Mr. Professor, what it 
is, instead of what it is not.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—I am much disposed to think it 
is some huge sea-monster, a grampus or a 
whale that raises up its back sometimes like 
an isle, on which are a quantity of small 
fishes that offer an easy prey to the birds; 
on this account they follow the monster, 
striving greedily to seize all they can in 
darting on it: those that succeed, fly off 
with their prey, and the rest pursue to snatch 
it from them. I feel assured that this is the 
case, and that if we look closely we shall 
observe this aquatic giant stretch out its 
immense fins, and when sufficiently warmed by 
the sun and it has inhaled a fresh supply of 
air, it will dive into the ocean, and form a 
vortex capable of sinking a large ship, if 
near it.</p>

<p><i>Jack.</i>—Yes, father, Ernest is quite right. 
At the very edge of the bank, and in 
proportion to its approach, I distinctly see something 
fall and rise again; one of its monstrous 
fins no doubt; I perceive its enormous 
claws too, certainly. If this great creature 
leaped out of the water, should we not all 
be in imminent danger?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—Yes, yes, it might perhaps 
swallow my son Jack as people swallow a pill. 
But, boys, these suppositions are at best but 
flimsy fancies, and it is a pity that the pains 
you take should not produce the least 
semblance of truth; and I am really surprised to 
find you so ready to believe in the existence 
of a monster equal in length to this moving 
bank.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—Upon my word, father, I have 
read of whales upsetting the largest ships by 
getting under them, and that sailors have 
often mistaken them for islands, got on them, 
sunk, and been devoured by the monster.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—You must allow, Ernest, for a 
good deal of exaggeration in such accounts, 
if they be not altogether fabulous. It is 
possible a marine animal of huge dimensions 
may have upset a small vessel, though I 
presume that would be difficult; I likewise 
believe it possible for a whale’s back to have 
been taken at some distance for a diminutive 
island; but when near, its shape and motions 
would soon destroy the illusion. It is certain 
that the whale-fishers get on the back of the 
animal to harpoon it; and this I believe is 
the foundation of these wonderful narratives. 
As to the moveable bank before us, I will 
now, on the observation I have taken, venture 
to inform you that it is neither more nor less 
than a shoal of herrings about to enter Safety 
Bay and fall into our hands; they will be well 
received by me, I assure you; and it is worth 
our while to get on speedily, that we may be 
sure of securing so valuable a booty.</p>

<p><i>Francis.</i>—But, dear father, what is a 
herring-shoal?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—It is an immense number of 
small fishes called herrings, which you ought 
to know, having often eaten of them in 
Europe. They swim so close together and 
occupy such a space, that they appear like a 
bank or island of sand several leagues in 
breadth, some fathoms deep, and sometimes 
above a hundred thousand long, at the 
moment of leaving the frozen sea together in a 
heap: they afterwards divide into bodies 
which cross the ocean on all sides, directing 
their course to the coasts and bays, where 
they spawn, that is, leave their eggs among 
the stones and sea plants, and to these spots 
fishermen from all parts go to catch them. 
The shoal is invariably followed by a legion 
of the largest fishes, such as bonittas, dories, 
sturgeons, dolphins, sea-dogs, <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr> which are 
very fond of them. These are not their only 
enemies; they also draw after them, as you 
see, flocks of voracious birds, that rush like 
banditti along the surface of the water and 
seize all they can. The herrings appear 
eager to reach those parts where the tide is 
lowest, to escape from the voracity of the 
sea monsters, by getting into shallow water; 
but in doing this they become an easier prey 
to the birds and to man. Exposed to 
destruction in so many ways, one might wonder 
the species is not extinct, if nature had not 
provided against these accidents by their 
astonishing fecundity; 68,656 eggs have 
been found in a moderate-sized female: thus 
they continue undiminished notwithstanding 
the vast numbers which are destroyed; in 
some seasons and latitudes they appear in 
such numerous and compact bodies that the 
fishery is relinquished. What Jack took for 
arms or fins, is, I imagine, the water spouted 
in the air by the dolphins, which keenly 
pursue the herrings. The whale and the 
grampus join in the chase, and from their 
size must commit enormous devastations.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—It is well they have left us a few; 
see how the shoal enters the bay. And in 
reality the entrance of it was entirely filled 
with them: they made a loud rustling noise 
in the water, leaping over each other, and 
displaying their scales of silver hue. This 
accounted for the luminous sparks we had 
seen emitted from the sea, and which we 
could not previously explain. We had no 
time for further contemplation, but hastened 
to unharness our team and supply the want 
of nets with our hands in catching the 
herrings: the boys used the largest gourds in 
lieu of pails, which were no sooner dipped 
in than filled; and we should have been at a 
loss where to stow them, had I not thought 
of employing the condemned boat of tubs. 
No sooner thought than accomplished; I 
had it immediately drawn to the water’s 
edge by the buffalo, and placed it on rollers; 
my wife and the two youngest lads cleaned 
it, whilst the other two went to the cavern 
for salt, and I quickly fitted up a sort of tent 
of sail-cloth on the strand, so as to keep off 
the rays of the sun while we were busied in 
salting. We then all engaged in the task, 
and I allotted to each a share adequate to 
his strength and skill. Fritz took his station 
in the water to bring us the herrings as fast 
as caught; Ernest and Jack cleaned them 
with knives; their mother pounded the salt; 
Francis helped all, and I placed them in the 
tubs as I had seen done in Europe. A 
joyous shout declared the general activity, 
though we did not get at once into a regular 
train with our proceedings; one of us was 
occasionally disengaged whilst the others 
were overborne with labour: this however 
was speedily arranged, and the business so 
well managed, that it was performed with 
speed and pleasure. I put a layer of salt at 
the bottom of the barrel, then of fish, the 
heads towards the staves, proceeding thus 
till my tubs were nearly full: I spread over 
the last layer of salt, large palm-tree leaves, 
on these a piece of sail cloth, and fitted in 
two half-rounded planks for a heading, 
which I pressed down with stones. This 
effected, I put the buffalo and the ass to the 
cart again, and conveyed it to our cool cellar 
in the rock. In a few days, when the 
herrings were sunk, I closed the barrels more 
accurately by means of a coating of clay and 
flax over the cloth, which kept out air and 
moisture completely, and secured us an 
excellent food for winter.</p>

<p>This work, in which we were engaged 
several days, kept us at Tent-House the 
whole week. Working from morning till 
night, we could only prepare and salt two 
large casks of them, and we wished to have 
at least eight. During this time fresh 
herrings were our chief aliment, and we from 
the novelty relished them exceedingly.</p>

<p>Scarcely had we finished our salting when 
another business arising out of it occurred; 
a number of sea dogs came into the bay and 
river<sup><a id="note21text"/><a href="#note21" class="pginternal">21</a></sup>, that had followed the herrings with 
the utmost greediness, sporting in the water 
along shore, without evincing any fear of us. 
This fish, which is scarcely eatable, offered 
little attraction to our palate and table, but 
in a different point of view the possession of 
it would be very beneficial; its skin tanned 
and dressed, makes excellent leather. I was 
in great need of it for straps and harness, 
to make saddles for Fritz and Jack to ride 
the onagra and buffalo, and in short for our 
own use to cut up into soles, belts, and 
pantaloons, of which articles we much wanted a 
fresh supply: besides, I knew the fat yielded 
good lamp oil, that might be substituted for 
tapers in the long evenings of winter; and 
that it would be further useful in tanning 
and rendering the leather pliant.</p>

<p>I directed my three eldest boys to kill a 
dozen of these large fishes with sticks and 
pickaxes instead of using powder, and they 
promptly began the attack. It is remarkable 
that boys in general have a disposition for 
the destruction of animals, which by degrees 
leads them to view their sufferings with 
indifference. I felt regret in being urged 
occasionally by circumstances to encourage 
this propensity; it therefore gave me pleasure 
to see them return in a few minutes and 
entreat me to allow them a little powder and 
some bullets, that they might dispatch the 
poor harmless creatures at once without 
much pain. I acquiesced of course in their 
entreaty and commended the humane idea, 
which I thought well worth the ammunition 
expended in the execution of it. It was in 
our peculiar situation impracticable for us to 
yield to that morbid sensibility which 
shudders at inflicting the smallest suffering upon 
an animal; nor can I help thinking such 
exhibitions somewhat absurd, since those 
very persons do not scruple to have on their 
table a nice chicken, a large fish, lobsters, 
and many other animals that have as valid a 
right to live as those we were necessitated to 
kill: however, I represented constantly to 
my children that cruelty and the passion of 
immolating without necessity, any of the 
brute creation, degrade man, and may lead 
on to the worst of crimes. On this occasion 
I was gratified in seeing they had surpassed 
me in consideration and humanity. In a 
very short time, after a few firings, the 
number of fishes was completed; we skinned 
them while fresh with little trouble, well 
rubbed them with salt on both sides, and hung 
them to dry in the sun, to be afterwards 
dressed in our grotto. Curiosity induced 
my wife to cook a piece of one of them, but 
it proved so bad that we threw it to our 
dogs, the eagle, and jackal, who made a 
hearty meal of it. The fat we preserved 
carefully, of which we collected a quantity; 
it was first put into a copper, melted and 
cleansed properly, then poured into casks 
and kept for the tan-house and lamp. When 
time should allow, I purposed making soap 
with it, and this design excited my wife’s 
zeal in the unpleasant though ultimately 
useful task we were engaged in. We also 
took care of the bladders, which are very 
large, for the purpose of holding liquids; the 
remaining parts that could be turned to no 
account were thrown into the adjoining 
stream; and this last act most unexpectedly 
procured us a regular supply of a far more 
palatable food—a number of fine fresh-water 
lobsters which came to feed on these offals. 
We bored through the sides of some empty 
chests, which we placed and kept down in 
the water with stones, and thus caught and 
preserved as in a reservoir as many lobsters 
as we wanted. A similar contrivance was 
fixed in Safety-Bay, which first became filled 
with live herrings, and subsequently with 
various kinds of small fishes that were caught 
with ease.</p>

<p>At this time I likewise made some 
improvements in our sledge, to facilitate the 
carrying of our stores from Falcon’s Stream 
to our dwelling in the rock at Tent House. 
I raised it on two beams, or axle-trees, at the 
extremities of which I put on the four 
gun-carriage wheels I had taken off the cannon 
from the vessel; by this alteration I obtained 
a light and very convenient vehicle, of 
moderate height, on which boxes and casks 
could be placed with little difficulty. Pleased 
with the operations of the week, we set out 
all together with cheerful hearts for Falcon’s 
Stream to pass our Sunday there, and once 
more offer our pious thanks to the Almighty 
for all the benefits he had bestowed upon his 
defenceless creatures.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap34" id="chap34" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER XXXIV.<br/>
<small><em>New fishery;—New experiments and 
chase;—New discoveries and house.</em></small></h2>

<p><span class="smcap">The</span> arrangement of our grotto went on, 
sometimes as a principal, sometimes as an 
intermediate occupation, according to the 
greater or less importance of other concerns: 
but though we advanced thus with moderate 
rapidity, the progress was notwithstanding 
such as to afford the hope of our being 
securely established within it by the time of 
the rainy season.</p>

<p>From the moment I discovered gypsum 
to be the basis of the crystal salt<sup><a id="note22text"/><a href="#note22" class="pginternal">22</a></sup> in our 
grotto, I foresaw the great advantages I 
should derive from it for our undertaking; 
but being unwilling to enlarge the dimensions 
of our dwelling by digging further, I tried to 
find a place in the continuation of the rock, 
which I might be able to blow up: I had 
soon the good fortune to meet with a narrow 
slip between the projections of the rocks 
which I could easily, by the means I 
proposed, convert into a passage that should 
terminate in our work-room. I found also 
on the ground a quantity of fragments of 
gypsum, and removed a great number of 
them to the kitchen, where we did not fail 
to bake a few of the pieces at a time when 
we made a fire for cooking, which, thus 
calcined, rubbed into a powder when cold: we 
obtained a considerable quantity of it, which 
I put carefully into casks for use when the 
time should come for finishing the interior 
of our dwelling. My notion was, to form 
the walls for separating the apartments of 
the squares of stone I had already provided, 
and to unite them together with a cement of 
this new ingredient, which would be the 
means both of sparing the timber, and 
increasing the beauty and solidity of the work.</p>

<p>It is almost incredible the immense 
quantity of plaster we had in a short time amassed; 
the boys were in a constant state of wonder 
as they looked at the heap, and protested 
they believed that I staid up at night to 
work. I seized the opportunity of imprinting 
on their minds the value of a firm and steady 
perseverance in an object once engaged in, 
the reward of which they now so agreeably 
experienced: When we first cast our eyes, 
continued I, on this rock, how little did we 
conceive it possible to transform it into a 
comfortable dwelling-place; yet we have not 
only in our own persons sufficed for 
carpenters and masons, but even plasterers too, 
and so effectually, that if we had it much at 
heart, we might adorn our walls with stucco 
as is the mode in Europe; we possess both 
the materials and intelligence, and with the 
addition of patience and industry, there is 
scarcely any thing, even what at first should 
seem impossible, too difficult for our 
performance.</p>

<p>The first use I made of the plaster was to 
complete some covers I had begun with other 
materials for my herring tubs, four of which 
I stopped down to render them impenetrable 
to the air; the rest of the herrings we 
intended to dry and smoke. For this purpose 
we erected a little sort of hut of reeds and 
branches, as is practised in Holland and 
America by the fishermen; we placed rows 
of sticks reaching from side to side across 
the hut, and laid the herrings upon them, 
and then lighted a heap composed of moss 
and fresh cut branches of trees, to produce 
a stronger and more effective vapour for 
the purpose: we made the door tight, and 
had soon the pleasure of adding a large stock 
of exquisitely flavoured dried herrings to our 
former store for the ensuing winter.</p>

<p>About a month after the singular visit of 
the herrings, which had now entirely left our 
shores, we received another and not a less 
profitable one from a fish of a different 
species: we observed Safety Bay to be filled 
with large fishes which seemed eager to push 
to the shore for the purpose of depositing 
their eggs among the stones in fresh water. 
Jack was the first to discover this 
circumstance: he told me he had seen a great 
number of whales swimming about in Jackal’s 
River, and supposed they were come in 
pursuit of the herrings, and that he was glad the 
greedy creatures would be disappointed. I 
replied that there must be some delusion in 
what he had seen, as I could not conceive of 
a regiment of whales arriving in our 
diminutive rivulet. Pray come with me, father, 
answered he, and look at them; some of 
them are as large as you, and if they are not 
whales, I will lay a wager that neither are 
they herrings. Hah, hah, master Jack, you 
are on the retreat then, I see; but between 
the whale and the herring there are many 
kinds and sizes, so I will e’en take side with 
you and wager that they are not herrings.</p>

<p>It however appeared to me worth while to 
go and convince myself on the spot, 
respecting these new-comers. Jack and I walked 
to the mouth of Jackal’s River, and 
immediately perceived immense quantities of a large 
fish moving slowly towards the banks, and 
some of them from four to eight feet in length. 
By the pointed snout I supposed the largest 
to be sturgeons, while the smallest I 
pronounced to be salmon. Jack now strutted 
and exulted as if he had gained the 
command of a regiment of soldiers:—What say 
you, now, father? said he, this is nothing like 
your little paltry herrings! A single fish of 
this troop would fill a tub!—No doubt, 
answered I: and with great gravity I added,—Pr’ythee, 
Jack, step into the river, and fling 
them to me one by one, that I may take them 
home to salt and dry.</p>

<p>He looked at me for a moment with a sort 
of vacant doubt if I could possibly be in 
earnest; then seizing suddenly a new idea—Wait 
a moment, father, cried he, and I will 
do so: and he sprung off like lightning 
towards the cavern, from whence he soon 
returned loaded with a bow and arrows, the 
bladders of the sea-dogs, and a ball of string 
to catch, as he assured me, every one of the 
fishes. I looked on with interest and 
curiosity to mark what was next to happen, while 
the animation of his countenance, the 
promptitude and gracefulness of his motions, and 
the firm determination of his manner, 
afforded me the highest amusement. He tied the 
bladders round at certain distances with a long 
piece of string, to the end of which he 
fastened an arrow and a small iron hook; he placed 
the large ball of string in a hole in the ground, 
at a sufficient distance from the water’s edge, 
and then he shot off his arrow, which the 
next instant stuck in one of the largest fishes. 
My young sportsman uttered a shout of joy. 
At the same moment Fritz joined us, and 
witnessed this unexpected feat without the 
least symptom of jealousy. Well done, 
brother Jack, cried he, but let me too have my 
turn.—Saying this he ran back and fetched 
the harpoon and the windlass, and returned 
to us accompanied by Ernest, who also 
desired to show his prowess in a contest with 
our newly discovered mariners. We were 
well pleased with their opportune arrival, for 
the salmon Jack had pierced struggled so 
fiercely, that all our endeavours to hold the 
string were insufficient, and we dreaded at 
every throw to see it break and the animal 
make good its escape. By degrees, however, its 
strength was exhausted, and aided by Fritz 
and Ernest, we succeeded in drawing it to a 
bank, where I put an end to its existence.</p>

<p>This fortunate beginning of a plan for a 
fishery inspired us all with hope and 
emulation. Fritz eagerly seized his harpoon and 
windlass; I, for my part, like Neptune, 
wielded a trident; Ernest prepared the large fishing 
rod, and Jack his arrow with the same 
apparatus as before, not forgetting the bladders 
which were so effectual in preventing the fish 
from sinking when struck. We were now 
more than ever sensible of our loss in the 
destruction of the tub-boat, with which we could 
have pursued the creature in the water, and 
have been spared much pains and difficulty; 
but on the other hand, such numbers of fishes 
presented themselves at the mouth of the 
river, that we had only to choose among 
them; and accordingly we were soon 
loaded with them to our heart’s content. Jack’s 
arrow after missing twice, struck the third 
time a large sturgeon, which was so untractable 
that we had great difficulty in securing 
him. I too had caught two of the same fish, 
and had been obliged to go up to the middle 
in the water to manage my booty. Ernest, 
with his rod and line and a hook, had also 
taken two smaller ones. Fritz with his 
harpoon had struck a sturgeon at least eight 
feet in length, and the skill and strength of 
our whole company were found necessary to 
conduct him safe to shore, where we 
harnessed the buffalo to him with strong cords to 
draw him to Tent House.</p>

<p>Our first concern was to clean our fish 
thoroughly inside to preserve them fresh the 
longer. I separated the eggs I found in them, 
and which could not be less than thirty 
pounds, and put them aside to make a dish 
called caviar, greatly relished by the 
Russians and the Dutch. I took care also of the 
bladders, thinking it might be possible to 
make a glue from them which would be 
useful for so many purposes. I advised my wife 
to boil some individuals of the salmon in oil, 
similar to the manner of preparing tunny-fish 
in the Mediterranean: and while she was 
engaged in this process, I was at work upon the 
caviar and the glue. For the first, I washed 
the berries in several waters, and then 
pressed them closely in gourd-rinds in which a 
certain number of holes had been bored. 
When the water had run off, the berries 
were taken out in a substance like cheese, 
which was then conveyed to the hut to be 
dried and smoked. For the second, we cut 
the bladders into strips, which we fastened 
firmly by one end to a stake, and taking hold 
of the other with a pair of pincers, we turned 
them round and round till the strip was 
reduced to a kind of knot, and these were then 
placed in the sun to harden; this being the 
simple and only preparation necessary for 
obtaining glue from the ingredient. When 
thoroughly dry, a small quantity is put on a 
slow fire to melt. We succeeded so well, 
and our glue was of so transparent a quality, 
that I could not help feeling the desire to 
manufacture some pieces large enough, for 
panes to a window frame.</p>

<p>When these various concerns were 
complete, we began to meditate a plan for 
constructing a small boat as a substitute for the 
tub raft, to come close into shore. I had a 
great desire to make it, as the savages do, of 
the rind of a tree; but the difficulty was to 
fix on one of sufficient bulk for my purpose; 
for though many were to be found in our 
vicinity, yet each was on some account or other 
of too much value to be spared. We 
therefore resolved to make a little excursion in 
pursuit of a tree of capacious dimensions, and 
in a situation where it was not likely to yield 
us fruit, to refresh us with its shade, or to 
adorn the landscape round our dwelling.</p>

<p>In this expedition we as usual aimed at 
more than one object: eager as we were for 
new discoveries, we yet allowed ourselves the 
time to visit our different plantations and 
stores at Falcon’s Stream. We were also 
desirous to secure a new supply of the wax 
berry, of gourds, and of elastic gum. Our 
kitchen garden at Tent-House was in a 
flourishing condition; nothing could exceed 
the luxuriance of the vegetation, and almost 
without the trouble of cultivation we had 
excellent roots and plants in abundance, which 
came in succession, and promised a rich 
supply of peas, beans of all sorts, lettuces, <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr>; 
our principal labour was to give them water 
freely, that they might be fresh and succulent 
for use. We had besides, melons and 
cucumbers in great plenty, which during the 
hottest weather we valued more than all the 
rest. We reaped a considerable quantity of 
Turkey wheat from the seed we had sown, 
and some of the ears were a foot in length. 
Our sugar-canes were also in the most 
prosperous condition, and one plantation of 
pine-apples on the high ground was also in 
progress to reward our labour with abundance 
of that delicious fruit.</p>

<p>This state of general prosperity at Tent 
House gave us the most flattering 
expectations from our nurseries at Falcon’s Stream. 
Full of these hopes, we one day set out all 
together for our now somewhat neglected 
former abode.</p>

<p>We arrived at Falcon’s Stream, where we 
intended to pass the night. We visited the 
ground my wife had so plentifully sowed with 
grain, which had sprung up with an almost 
incredible rapidity and luxuriance, and was 
now nearly ready for reaping. We cut down 
what was fairly ripe, bound it together in 
bundles, and conveyed it to a place where it 
would be secure from the attacks of more 
expert grain consumers than ourselves, of which 
thousands hovered round the booty. We 
reaped barley, wheat, rye, oats, peas, millet, 
lentils,—only a small quantity of each, it is 
true, but sufficient to enable us to sow again 
plentifully at the proper season. The plant 
that had yielded the most was maize, a proof 
that it best loved the soil. It had already 
shown itself in abundance in our garden at 
Tent House; but here there was a surface of 
land, the size of an ordinary field, entirely 
covered with its splendid golden ears, which 
still more than the other plants attracted the 
voracity of the feathered race. The moment 
we drew near, a dozen at least of large 
bustards sprang up with a loud rustling noise 
which awakened the attention of the dogs; 
they plunged into the thickest parts, and 
routed numerous flocks of birds of all kinds 
and sizes, who all took hastily to flight; 
among the fugitives were some quails who 
escaped by running, and lastly some 
kangaroos, whose prodigious leaps enabled them 
to elude the pursuit of the dogs.</p>

<p>We were so overcome by the surprise such 
an assemblage of living creatures occasioned, 
as to forget the resource we had in our guns; 
we stood as it were stupid with amazement 
during the first moments, and before we came 
to ourselves the prey was beyond our reach, 
and for the most part out of sight. Fritz 
was the first to perceive and to feel with 
indignation the silly part we had been playing, 
and to consider in what way we could repair 
the mischief. Without further loss of time, he 
took the bandage from his eagle’s eyes, (for 
the bird always accompanied him perched 
upon his-game bag,) and showed him with his 
hand the bustards still flying, and at no great 
distance. The eagle took a rapid flight. Fritz 
jumped like lightning on the back of his 
onagra and galloped over every thing that 
intervened in the direction the bird had taken, and 
we soon lost sight of him.</p>

<p>We now beheld a spectacle which in the 
highest degree excited our curiosity and 
interest: the eagle had soon his prey in view; 
he mounted above the bustard in a direct 
line, without losing sight of it for an instant, 
and then darted suddenly down; the bustards 
flew about in utter confusion, now seeking 
shelter in the bushes, then crossing each other 
in every direction, in the attempt to evade 
the common enemy; but the eagle remained 
steady in the pursuit of the bird he had fixed 
upon for his prey, and disregarded all the 
rest: he alighted on the unlucky bustard, 
fixed his claws and his beak in its back, till 
Fritz arriving full gallop, got down from the 
onagra, replaced the bandage on the eagle’s 
eyes, seated him once more upon the 
game-bag, and having relieved the poor bustard 
from his persecutor, he shouted to us to come 
and witness his triumph! We ran speedily to 
the place. Jack alone remained in the maize 
plantation, meditating also the giving us a 
specimen of the happy effects of the 
education he had bestowed on the young jackal, 
who had slipped slily away after the birds we 
supposed were quails, and who on their parts 
were using every effort to escape; the jackal 
however soon overtook them, seized one of 
them by the wing and brought it to his 
master; in the same manner he had carried him 
at least a dozen more by the time we reached 
the spot: and now nothing was heard but the 
exclamations of Fritz and Jack, who had not 
words to express their self-congratulations 
for the good effects of their mode of training 
their respective animals, who, to say the truth, 
deserved the wonder and the praise of all. A 
large fat quail was immediately given to each 
as a token of approbation.</p>

<p>At the conclusion of this adventure we 
hastened forward to arrive the soonest 
possible at Falcon’s Stream, and pay the earliest 
attention to the wounds the bustard had 
received from the eagle. We perceived with 
pleasure that it was a male, and foresaw the 
advantage of giving him for a companion to 
our solitary female of the same species, who 
was completely tamed. I threw a few more 
bundles of maize into the cart, and without 
further delay we arrived at our tree, one and 
all sinking with faintness from hunger, thirst, 
and fatigue. It was on such occasions that 
my exemplary partner evinced the superior 
fortitude and generosity of her temper: 
though more a sufferer than either of us, her 
first thought was what she could administer 
to relieve us in the shortest time, for we had 
consumed our little store of wine, and could 
not soon and easily procure milk from the 
cow: she contrived to bruise some of the 
maize between two large stones, and then 
put it in a linen cloth, and with all her 
strength squeezed out the sap; she then 
added some juice from the sugar-canes, and in 
a few minutes presented us with a draught 
of a cool refreshing liquid, beautifully white 
in appearance and agreeable to the taste, and 
which we received at her hands with feelings 
of grateful emotion.</p>

<p>I applied myself without loss of time to the 
cure of the bustard’s wounds, which I washed 
carefully with a lotion composed of water, 
wine, and butter, which was our constant 
remedy; I then tied him by the leg close to 
the female in the yard. Jack had been able 
to preserve alive only two of the quails, which 
he now brought me, and I treated them in 
the same manner: all the others that the 
jackal had killed were plucked and put on 
the spit for supper. The rest of the day was 
employed in picking the grains of the 
different sorts of corn from the stalks: we put 
what we wished to keep for sowing into some 
gourd-shells, and the Turkey wheat was laid 
carefully aside in sheaves till we should have 
time to beat and separate it. Fritz observed 
that we should also want to grind it, and I 
reminded him of the hand-mill we had 
secured from our departed ally, the wrecked vessel.</p>

<p><i>Fritz.</i>—But, father, the hand-mill is so 
small, and so subject to be put out of 
order:—Why should we not contrive a water-mill, 
as they do in Europe? We have surely rapid 
streams of water in abundance.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—This is true, but such a 
mechanism is more difficult than you imagine; the 
wheel alone, I conceive, would be an 
undertaking far beyond our strength or our 
capacity. I am, however, well pleased with the 
activity and zeal which prompted your idea; 
and though I dare not bid you trust in a 
successful result, yet we may consider whether 
it may be worth while to bestow upon it 
further attention; we have abundance of time 
before us, for we shall not want a water-mill 
till our harvests are such as to produce 
plentiful crops of corn. In the mean time let us 
be thinking, boy, of our proposed excursion 
for to-morrow, for we should set out, at 
latest, by sun-rise.</p>

<p>We began our preparations accordingly: 
my wife chose some hens and two fine cocks, 
with the intention of taking them with us and 
leaving them at large to produce a colony of 
their species at a considerable distance from 
our dwelling-places: I with the same view 
visited our stable, and selected four young 
pigs, four sheep, two kids, and one male of 
each species, our numbers having so much 
increased that we could well afford to spare 
these individuals for the experiment: if we 
succeeded in thus accustoming them to the 
natural temperature and productions of our 
island, we should have eased ourselves of the 
burden of their support, and should always 
be able to find them at pleasure.</p>

<p>The next morning, after loading the cart 
with all things necessary, not forgetting the 
rope ladder and the portable tent, we quitted 
Falcon’s Stream. The animals with their legs 
tied, were all stationed in the vehicle. We left 
abundance of food for those that remained 
behind; the cow, the ass, and the buffalo were 
harnessed to the cart; and Fritz mounted on 
his favourite, the onagra, pranced along 
before us to ascertain the best and smoothest 
path for the cavalcade.</p>

<p>We took this time a new direction, which 
was straight forward between the rocks and 
the shore, that we might make ourselves 
acquainted with every thing contained in the 
island we seemed destined for ever to inhabit.</p>

<p>In effect, the line proceeding from Falcon’s 
Stream to the Great Bay, might be said to be 
the extent of our dominions; for though Fritz 
and I had discovered the adjacent exquisite 
country of the buffalos, yet the passage to it 
by the end of the rocks was so dangerous, 
and at so great a distance, that we could not 
hope to domiciliate ourselves upon its soil, as 
we had done on our side of the rocks. We 
found, as usual, much difficulty in pushing 
through the tall tough grass and alternately 
through the thick prickly bushes which every 
where obtruded themselves. We were often 
obliged to turn aside while I cut a passage with 
my hatchet; but these accidents seldom 
failed to reward my toil by the discovery of 
different small additions to our general 
comfort among others, some roots of trees 
curved by nature to serve both for saddles and 
yokes for our beasts of burden. I took care 
to secure several, and put them in the cart.</p>

<p>When we had spent about an hour in 
getting forward, we found ourselves at the 
extremity of the wood, and a most singular 
phenomenon presented itself to our view: a 
small plain, or rather a grove of low bushes, 
to appearance almost covered with flakes of 
snow, lay extended before us. Little Francis 
was the first to call our attention to it, he 
being seated in the cart:—Look, father, cried 
he, here is a place quite full of snow; let me 
get down and make some snow-balls: Oh, 
how glad I am that we shall now have snow 
instead of the ugly rain which made us all so 
uncomfortable!</p>

<p>I could not resist a hearty laugh; and 
though sure what we saw could not in the 
midst of such scorching heat be snow, yet I 
was completely at a loss to explain the nature 
of what in colour and appearance bore so 
near a resemblance to it. Suddenly, 
however, a suspicion crossed my mind, and was 
soon confirmed by Fritz, who had darted 
forward on his onagra, and now returned 
with one hand filled with tufts of a most 
excellent species of cotton, so that the whole 
surface of low bushes was in reality a 
plantation of that valuable article. This most 
useful of almost the whole range of vegetable 
productions bestowed by Providence on man, 
which with the cost of only a little labour 
supplies him with apparel and commodious 
beds for the repose of his limbs, is found in 
such abundance in islands, that I had been 
surprised at not meeting with any before. 
The pods had burst from ripeness, and the 
winds had scattered around their flaky 
contents; the ground was strewed with them, 
they had gathered in tufts on the bushes, and 
they floated gently in the air.</p>

<p>The joy of this discovery was almost too 
great for utterance, and was shared by all 
but Francis, who was sorry to lose his pretty 
snow-balls; and his mother, to soothe his 
regret, made the cotton into balls for him to 
play with, and promised him some new shirts 
and dresses: then turning to me, she poured 
out her kind heart in descriptions of all the 
comfortable things she should make for us, 
could I construct a spinning-wheel, and then a 
loom for weaving.</p>

<p>We collected as much cotton as our bags 
would hold, and my wife filled her pockets 
with the seed to raise it in our garden at 
Tent-House.</p>

<p>It was now time to proceed; and we took 
a direction towards a point of land which 
skirted the wood of gourds, and being high 
commanded a view of the adjacent country. 
I conceived a wish to remove our 
establishment to the vicinity of the cotton plantation 
and the gourd wood, which furnished so 
many of the utensils for daily use throughout 
the family. I pleased myself in idea with 
the view of the different colonies of animals 
I had imagined, both winged and quadruped, 
and in this elevation of my fancy I even 
thought it might be practicable to erect a 
sort of farm-house on the soil, which we 
might visit occasionally, and be welcomed 
by the agreeable sounds of the cackling of 
our feathered subjects, which would so 
forcibly remind us of the customs of our forsaken 
but ever cherished country.</p>

<p>We accordingly soon reached the high 
ground, which I found in all respects 
favourable to my design; behind, a thick forest 
gradually rose above us, which sheltered us 
from the north wind, and insensibly declined 
towards the south, ending in a plain clothed 
luxuriantly with grass, shrubs, and plants, and 
watered by a refreshing rivulet, which was 
an incalculable advantage for our animals of 
every kind as well as for ourselves.</p>

<p>My plan for a building was approved by 
all, and we lost no time in pitching our tent 
and forming temporary accommodations for 
cooking our victuals. When we had refreshed 
ourselves with a meal, we each took up some 
useful occupation; my wife and the boys 
went to work with the cotton, which they 
thoroughly cleaned and cleared from bits of 
the pods or other foreign substance, and 
which was then put into the bags and served 
commodiously at night for bolsters and 
mattresses. I for my part resolved to look 
about in all directions, that I might 
completely understand what we should have to 
depend upon in this place in point of safety, 
salubrity, and general accommodation. I had 
also to find a tree that would suit for the 
proposed construction of a boat; and lastly, 
to meet if possible with a group of trees at 
such fit distances from each other as would 
assist me in my plan of erecting my farm. 
I was fortunate enough in no long time to 
find in this last respect exactly what I 
wanted, and quite near to the spot we on 
many accounts had felt to be so enviable: 
but I was not equally successful for my boat, 
the trees in the vicinity being of too small a 
bulk to supply the depth necessary for 
keeping on the surface of the water. I returned 
to my companions, whom I found busily 
employed in preparing excellent beds of the 
cotton, upon which at an earlier hour than 
usual we all retired to rest.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap35" id="chap35" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER XXXV.<br/>
<small><em>Completion of two farm-houses;—a 
lake;—the beast with a bill.</em></small></h2>

<p><span class="smcap">The</span> trees that I had chosen for the 
construction of my farm were for the most part 
one foot in diameter; their growth was 
tolerably regular in the form of a 
parallelogram with its longest side to the sea, the 
length being twenty four feet, and the breadth 
sixteen. I cut little hollow places or 
mortices in the trunks, at the distance of ten 
feet one above the other, to form two 
stories; the upper one I made a few inches 
shorter before than behind, that the roof 
might be in some degree shelving: I then 
inserted beams five inches in diameter 
respectively in the mortices, and thus formed 
the skeleton of my building. We next 
nailed some laths from tree to tree, at equal 
distances from each other, to form the roof, 
and placed on them, in mathematical order, 
a covering composed of pieces of the bark 
of trees cut into the shape of tiles, and in a 
sloping position for the rain to run off in the 
wet season. As we had no great provision 
of iron nails, we used for the purpose the 
strong pointed thorn of the acacia, which we 
had discovered the day before. This tree, 
which bears an elegant flower, is known by 
the name of <i>Acacia with three thorns</i>, and 
it in reality exhibits, growing all together, 
three strong sharp-pointed thorns, which 
might easily be used as weapons of defence. 
We cut down a quantity of them and laid 
them in the sun to dry, when they became 
as hard as iron, and were of essential service 
to our undertaking. We found great 
difficulty in peeling off a sufficient quantity of 
bark from trees to cover our roof. I began 
with cutting the bark entirely round at 
distances of about two feet all the length of 
the trunk; I next divided the intervals 
perpendicularly into two parts, which I separated 
from the tree by sliding a wedge under the 
corners to raise the bark by degrees; I next 
placed the pieces on the ground, with stones 
laid on them to prevent their curving, to dry 
in the sun; and lastly, I nailed them on the 
roof, where they had the appearance of the 
scales of fishes,—an effect that was not only 
pleasing to the eye, but reminded us of the 
roofs of our native land.</p>

<p>On this occasion we made another 
agreeable discovery: my wife took up the 
remaining chips of the bark for lighting a fire, 
supposing they would burn easily; we were 
surprised by a delicious aromatic odour which 
perfumed the air. On examining the 
half-consumed substance, we found some of the 
pieces to contain turpentine, and others 
gum-mastich, so that we might rely on a supply 
of these ingredients from the trees which 
had furnished the bark. It was less with a 
view to the gratifying our sense of smelling, 
than with the hope of being able to secure 
these valuable drugs for making a sort of 
pitch to complete our meditated boat, that 
we indulged our earnestness in the pursuit. 
The instinct of our goats, or the acuteness 
of their smell, discovered for us another 
acquisition of a no less pleasing quality; we 
observed with surprise that they ran from a 
considerable distance to throw themselves 
about on some particular chips of bark which 
lay on the ground, and which they began to 
chew and eat greedily. Jack seized a piece 
also, to find out, as he said, what could be 
the reason of so marked a preference as the 
goats had shown. Oh, it is indeed excellent, 
exclaimed he; and I perceive that goats are 
animals of taste! Only try this little bit, 
brother Fritz, and tell us if it is not exactly like 
cinnamon? Fritz did as he was desired, and 
was of Jack’s opinion. My wife and I then 
followed their example, and were convinced 
that it was cinnamon, though not so fine a 
sort as that from the isle of Ceylon.</p>

<p>This new commodity was certainly of no 
great importance to us; but we nevertheless 
regarded it with pleasure, as an article that 
would serve to distinguish some day of 
particular rejoicing. Ernest and Francis asked 
to taste it also, and agreed with us that the 
occasional use of it would be agreeable. The 
tree from which we had taken our bark was 
old, and the cinnamon was no doubt the 
coarser flavoured on this account: I 
remembered to have read, that young trees produce 
this spice in much greater perfection.</p>

<p>During our next meal we amused 
ourselves with a retrospect of the different 
discoveries we had made that day. I had to 
relate to my wife what I knew on the subject 
of the nature of these new productions; 
the turpentine, the mastich, and the 
cinnamon. I informed her that the two first had 
been discovered by the Venetians, who had 
gone so far as the islands of ancient Greece 
in search of them, and that they had 
afterwards become articles of commerce. And 
of what use is turpentine? asked Francis.</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—It is used in medicine; also for 
varnishes, and in the composition of resin; 
by putting it over the fire and mixing a little 
oil with it, it makes an excellent kind of 
pitch, and in this last form it will be of 
essential service to me for the outer coat of my 
new boat. It is also useful, applied to the 
wheels of any sort of carriages.</p>

<p><i>Ernest.</i>—And the mastich, father?</p>

<p><i>Father.</i>—This production comes from a 
tree of the same name; it oozes out in 
drops and hardens in the sun, something like 
amber. It is used in perfumes, and as a 
varnish for porcelain, being soluble in spirits 
of wine. As to cinnamon, I can only tell 
you that the best sort is a production of the 
island of Ceylon; it is gathered from 
young plants; the outside covering being first 
taken away, the next coat is the perfect 
cinnamon, and its smell is quite delicious; it 
is put to dry in the sun, and it rolls of 
itself into the shapes in which you must have 
seen it; they are afterwards tied in small 
parcels and sewed into cotton bags, which 
are again inclosed in reed matting; lastly, 
the parcels are put into buffalos’ skins, which 
are as hard and as impenetrable as horn. 
By this process the cinnamon is so 
effectually preserved, that it may be safely 
transported to any distance. It is used in Europe 
for imparting a delicious flavour to the more 
delicate kinds of liqueurs and sweetmeats.</p>

<p>When our meal and the lecture were 
both ended, we resumed with ardour our 
undertaking of the farm, which we continued 
without interruption for several days.</p>

<p>We formed the walls of our building with 
matted reeds interwoven with pliant laths to 
the height of six feet; the remaining space 
to the roof was inclosed with only a simple 
grating, that the air and light might be 
admitted. A door was placed in the middle 
of the front. We next arranged the interior, 
with as much convenience as the shortness 
of the time and our reluctance to use all our 
timber would allow; we divided it half way 
up by a partition wall, into two unequal 
parts; the largest was intended for the sheep 
and goats, and the smallest for ourselves, 
when we should wish to pass a few days 
here. At the further end of the stable we 
fixed a house for the fowls, and above it a 
sort of hay-loft for the forage. Before the 
door of entrance we placed two benches, 
contrived as well as we could of laths and odd 
pieces of wood, that we might rest ourselves 
under the shade of the trees, and enjoy the 
exquisite prospect which presented itself on 
all sides. Our own apartment was provided 
with a couple of the best bedsteads we could 
make of twigs of trees, raised upon four legs 
two feet from the ground, and these were 
destined to receive our cotton mattresses. 
Our aim was to content ourselves for the 
present with these slight hints of a dwelling, 
and to consider hereafter what additions 
either of convenience or ornament could be 
made, such as plastering, <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr> <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr> All we 
were now anxious about, was to provide a 
shelter for our animal colonists, which should 
encourage and fix them in the habit of 
assembling every evening in one place. For 
several days, at first, we took care to fill their 
troughs with their favourite food mixed with 
salt, and we agreed that we would return 
frequently to repeat this indirect mode of 
invitation for their society, till they should 
be entirely fixed in their expectation of 
finding it.</p>

<p>I had imagined we could accomplish what 
we wished at the farm in three or four days; 
but we found in the experiment that a whole 
week was necessary, and our victuals fell 
short before our work was done. We began 
to consider what remedy we could apply to 
so embarrassing a circumstance; I could not 
prevail upon myself to return to Falcon’s 
Stream before I had completed my intentions 
at the farm, and the other objects of my 
journey. I had even come to the 
determination of erecting another building upon the 
site of Cape Disappointment; I therefore 
decided that on this trying occasion I would 
invest Fritz and Jack with the important 
mission. They were accordingly dispatched 
to Falcon’s Stream and to Tent-House, to 
fetch new supplies of cheese, ham, potatoes, 
dried fish, manioc bread, for our subsistence, 
and also to distribute fresh food to the 
numerous animals we had left there. I directed 
one to mount the onagra, and the other the 
buffalo. My two knight-errants, proud of 
their embassy, set off with a brisk trot; they 
at my desire took with them the old ass to 
bring the load of provisions. Fritz was to 
lead him with a bridle, while Jack smacked 
a whip near his ears to quicken his motions; 
and certainly, whether from the influence of 
climate or the example of his companion the 
onagra, he had lost much of his accustomed 
inactivity: and this was the more important, 
as I intended to make a saddle for my wife 
to get on his back and relieve herself 
occasionally from the fatigue of walking.</p>

<p>During the absence of our purveyors, I 
rambled with Ernest about the neighbouring 
soil, to make what new discoveries I could, 
and to procure if possible some cocoa-nuts 
or other valuable addition to our store of 
provisions.</p>

<p>We followed the winding of a river we 
had remarked, and which conducted towards 
the centre of the wall of rocks; our course 
was here interrupted by an extensive marsh 
which bordered a small lake, the aspect of 
which was enchantingly picturesque. I 
perceived with joyful surprise that the whole 
surface of this swampy soil was covered with 
a kind of wild rice, ripe on the stalk, and 
which attracted the voracity of large flocks 
of birds. As we approached, a loud rustling 
was heard, and we distinguished on the wing 
bustards, Canada heath-fowl in abundance, 
and great numbers of smaller birds, with the 
names of which we were unacquainted. We 
succeeded in bringing down five or six of 
them, and I was pleased to remark in Ernest 
a justness of aim that promised well for the 
future. The habits of his mind discovered 
themselves on this as on many previous 
occasions; he betrayed no ardour, he did every 
thing with a slowness that seemed to imply 
dislike; yet the cool deliberation and 
constancy he applied to every attempt he had to 
engage in, so effectually assisted his 
judgement, that he was sure to arrive at a more 
perfect execution than the other boys. He 
had practised but little in the study of how 
to fire a gun to the best advantage; but 
Ernest was a silent inquirer and observer, 
and accordingly his first essays were 
generally crowned with success. In this affair, 
however, of the birds, his skill would have 
proved fruitless, if Jack’s young jackal, which 
had followed us in our walk, had not plunged 
courageously into the swamp and brought 
out the birds as they fell.</p>

<p>At a small distance was also master Knips, 
who had taken his post on Ponto’s back. 
Presently we saw him jump off and smell 
earnestly along the ground among some 
thick-growing plants, then pluck off 
something with his two paws and eat of it 
voraciously. We ran to the spot to see what it 
could be, when, to the infinite relief of our 
parched palates, we found he had discovered 
there the largest and finest kind of 
strawberry, which is called in Europe the <i>Chili</i> or 
<i>pine strawberry</i>.</p>

<p>On this occasion the proud creature, man, 
generously condescended to be the imitator 
of a monkey: we threw ourselves upon the 
ground, as near to Knips as we could creep, 
and devoured as fast as we could swallow, 
till we felt sufficiently refreshed. Many of 
these strawberries were of an enormous size, 
and Ernest with his usual coolness, and I 
must needs confess there was no want of 
his constancy either, devoured an immense 
quantity: he however recollected his absent 
friends, and filled a small gourd-shell we had 
brought with us with the finest fruit, and 
then covered them with leaves and tied them 
down with a tendril from a neighbouring 
plant, that he might present them in 
perfection to his mother. I, on my part, 
gathered a specimen of the rice to offer, that 
she might inform us if it was fit for culinary 
purposes.</p>

<p>After pursuing our way a little further 
along the marsh, we reached the lake, which 
we had descried with so much pleasure from 
a distance, and whose banks being overgrown 
with thick underwood, were necessarily 
concealed from the momentary view we had 
leisure to take of surrounding objects, 
particularly as the lake was situated in a deep 
and abrupt valley. No traveller who is not 
a native of Switzerland can conceive the 
emotion which trembled at my heart, as I 
contemplated this limpid, azure, undulating, 
body of water, the faithful miniature of so 
many grand originals, which I had probably 
lost sight of for ever! My eyes swam with 
tears!—How glad I am to see a lake! I 
could almost think myself in Switzerland, 
father, said Ernest.</p>

<p>Alas, a single glance upon the 
surrounding pictures, the different characters of the 
trees, the vast ocean in the distance, destroyed 
the momentary illusion, and brought back 
our ideas to the painful reality that we were 
strangers in a desert island!</p>

<p>Another sort of object now presented itself 
to confirm the certainty that we were no 
longer inhabitants of Europe; it was the 
appearance of a quantity of swans which glided 
over the surface of the lake; but their colour, 
instead of white, like those of our country, 
was a jetty black<sup><a id="note23text"/><a href="#note23" class="pginternal">23</a></sup>; and their plumage had 
so high a gloss as to produce, reflected in 
the water, the most astonishing effect. The 
six large feathers of the wing of this bird are 
white, exhibiting a singular contrast to the 
rest of the body; in other respects these 
creatures were remarkable, like those of 
Europe, for the haughty gracefulness of their 
motions, and the voluptuousness of their 
nature. We remained a long time in silent 
admiration of the scene; some of the swans 
pursued their course magnificently on the 
bosom of the blue water; others stopped 
and seemed to hold deliberations with their 
companions, or to admire themselves, or 
caress each other; many young ones 
followed in the train of the parent bird, who 
frequently turned half round in execution of 
her watchful and matronly office. This was 
a spectacle which I could not allow to be 
interrupted by bloodshed, though Ernest, 
rendered a little vain by his success and my 
encomiums, would have been ready to fire 
upon the swans, if I had not absolutely 
forbidden the attempt; at the same time I 
consoled him with the promise that we would 
endeavour to obtain a pair of the interesting 
creatures for our establishment at Falcon’s 
Stream.</p>

<p>Ponto just at this moment dragged out of 
the water a bird he had seized; we ran to 
examine it, and our surprise was extreme on 
remarking the singularity of its appearance. 
It was somewhat in shape like an otter, and, 
like the tribe of water-birds, web-footed: 
its tail was long and erect, and covered with 
a soft kind of hair; the head was very small, 
and the ears and eyes were almost invisible; 
to these more ordinary characters was added, 
a long flat bill, like that of a duck, which 
protruded from its snout, and produced so 
ludicrous an effect that we could not resist a 
hearty laugh. All the science of the learned 
Ernest, joined with my own, was insufficient 
to ascertain the name and nature of this 
animal. We had no resource but to remain 
ignorant; in the mean time we christened 
it by the name of <i>Beast with a bill</i>, and 
decided that it should be carefully stuffed and 
preserved.</p>

<p>We now began to look for the shortest 
path for rejoining our companions at the 
farm, which we reached at the same time 
with Fritz and Jack, who had well performed 
the object of their journey, and were received 
by all with satisfaction. We, on our parts, 
produced our offering of strawberries and 
our specimen of rice, which were welcomed 
with shouts of pleasure and surprise.</p>

<p>The beast with a bill was next examined 
with eager curiosity<sup><a id="note24text"/><a href="#note24" class="pginternal">24</a></sup>, and then laid aside for 
the plan I had formed. My wife proceeded 
to pluck and salt the birds we had killed, 
reserving one fresh for our supper, which we 
partook of together upon the benches before 
the door of our new habitation. We filled 
the stable with forage, laid a large provision 
of grain for the fowls within their house, and 
began arrangements for our departure.</p>

<p>The following day we took a silent leave 
of our animals and directed our course 
towards Cape Disappointment. On entering 
Monkey Wood, innumerable animals of the 
species from which it derives its name began 
to scamper away, grinding their teeth in sign 
of anger at our approach. We pursued our 
way, and arrived shortly after at the eminence 
we were in pursuit of in the vicinity of Cape 
Disappointment; we ascended it, and found 
it in every respect adapted to our wishes. 
From this eminence we had a view over the 
country which surrounded Falcon’s Stream 
in one direction, and in others of a richly 
diversified extent of landscape 
comprehending sea, land, and rocks. When we had 
paused for a short time upon the exhaustless 
beauties of the scene, we agreed with one 
voice that it should be on this spot we would 
build our second cottage. A spring of the 
clearest water issued from the soil near the 
summit, and flowed over its sloping side, 
forming, in its rapid course, agreeable 
cascades: in short, every feature of the picture 
contributed to form a landscape worthy the 
homage of a taste the most delicate and 
refined. I presented my children with an 
appropriate word.—Let us build here, exclaimed 
I, and call the spot—Arcadia<sup><a id="note25text"/><a href="#note25" class="pginternal">25</a></sup>; to which my 
wife and all agreed.</p>

<p>We lost no time in again setting to work 
upon this additional arduous undertaking; 
our experience at the farm enabled us to 
proceed in it with incredible rapidity, and 
our success was in every respect more 
complete. The building contained a dining-room, 
two bed-chambers, two stables, and a 
store-room for preserving all kinds of provisions 
for man and beast. We formed the roof 
square, with four sloping sides, and the 
whole had really the appearance of a 
European cottage, and was finished in the short 
space of six days.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#chap36" id="chap36" class="pginternal"/>CHAPTER XXXVI.<br/>
<small><em>The boat;—progress in the abode of rocks.</em></small></h2> 

<p><span class="smcap">Our</span> Arcadia being entirely completed, what 
remained to be done was to fix on a tree fit 
for my project of a boat. After much search, 
I at length found one of prodigious size, and 
in most respects suitable to my views.</p>

<p>It was, however, no very encouraging 
prospect I had before me, being nothing less 
than the stripping off a piece of the bark 
that should be eighteen feet in length and 
five in diameter; and now I found my rope 
ladder of signal service; we fastened it by 
one end to the nearest branches, and it 
enabled us to work with the saw, as might be 
necessary, at any height from the ground. 
Accordingly, we cut quite round the trunk in 
two places, and then took a perpendicular 
slip from the whole length between the 
circles; by this means we could introduce the 
proper utensils for raising the rest by 
degrees, till it was entirely separated. We toiled 
with increasing anxiety, at every moment 
dreading that we should not be able to 
preserve it from breaking, or uninjured by our 
tools. When we had loosened about half, 
we supported it by means of cords and pulleys; 
and when all was at length detached, we let 
it down gently, and with joy beheld it lying 
safe on the grass. Our business was next to 
mould it to our purpose, while the substance 
continued moist and flexible.</p>

<p>The boys observed that we had now 
nothing more to do, than to nail a plank at 
each end, and our boat would be as complete 
as those used by the savages; but, for my 
own part, I could not be contented with a 
mere roll of bark for a boat; and when I 
reminded them of the paltry figure it would 
make following the pinnace, I heard not 
another word about the further pains and 
trouble, and they asked eagerly for my 
instructions. I made them assist me to saw 
the bark in the middle, the length of several 
feet from the ends; these two parts I folded 
over till they ended in a point, naturally 
raised; I kept them in this form by the help 
of the strong glue I had before made from 
fish-bladders, and pieces of wood nailed fast 
over the whole: this operation tended to 
widen the boat in the middle, and thus render 
it of too flat a form; but this we 
counteracted by straining a cord all round, which 
again reduced it to the due proportion, and 
in this state we put it in the sun, to harden 
and fix. Many things were still wanting to 
the completion of my undertaking, but I 
had not with me proper utensils: I therefore 
dispatched the boys to Tent-House, to fetch 
the sledge, and convey it there for our better 
convenience in finishing.</p>

<p>Before our departure for Tent-House we 
collected several new plants for the 
kitchen-garden; and lastly, we made another trip to 
the narrow strait at the end of the wall of 
rocks, resolved, as I before mentioned, to 
plant there a sort of fortification of trees, 
which should produce the double effect of 
discouraging the invasion of savages, and of 
allowing us to keep our pigs on the other 
side, and thus secure our different plantations 
from the chance of injury. We 
accomplished all these intentions to our entire 
satisfaction, and in addition we placed a slight 
draw-bridge across the river beyond the 
narrow pass, which we could let down or take 
up at pleasure on our side. We now 
hastened our return to Arcadia, and after a 
night’s repose we loaded the sledge with 
the boat and other matters, and returned to 
Tent-House.</p>

<p>As soon as we had dispatched some 
necessary affairs, we resumed the completion of 
the boat: in two days she had received the 
addition of a keel, a neat lining of wood, a 
small flat floor, benches, a small mast and 
triangular sail, a rudder, and a thick coat of 
pitch on the outside, so that the first time we 
saw her in the water, we were all in ecstasies 
at the charming appearance she made.</p>

<p>Our cow in the mean time had brought 
forth a young calf, a male; I pierced its 
nostril, as I had so successfully practised 
with the buffalo, and it gave promise of 
future docility and strength.</p>

<p>We had still two months in prospect 
before the rainy season, and we employed them 
for completing our abode in the grotto, with 
the exception of such ornaments as we might 
have time to think of during the long days 
of winter. We made the internal divisions 
of planks, and that which separated us from 
the stables, of stone, to protect us from the 
offensive smell occasioned by the animals. 
Our task was difficult, but from habit it 
became easier every day. We took care to 
collect or manufacture a sufficient quantity 
of all sorts of materials, such as beams and 
planks, reeds and twigs for matting, pieces 
of gypsum for plaster, <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr> <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr> At length 
the time of the rainy season was near at hand, 
and this once we thought of it with pleasure, 
as the period that would put us in possession 
of the enjoyments we had procured by such 
unremitting industry and fatigue. We had 
an inexpressible longing to find ourselves 
domiciliated and at leisure to converse 
together on the subject of all the wondrous 
benefits bestowed upon us by an ever-watchful 
and beneficent Providence!</p>

<p>We plastered over the walls of the 
principal apartments on each side with the 
greatest care, finishing them by pressure with a 
flat smooth board, and lastly a wash of size, 
in the manner of the plasterers in Europe. 
This ornamental portion of our work amused 
us all so much, that we began to think we 
might venture a step further in the question 
of European luxury, and we agreed that we 
would attempt to make some carpets with 
the hair of our goats. To this effect, we 
smoothed the ground in the rooms we 
intended to distinguish, with great care; then 
spread over it some sail cloth, which my wife 
had joined in breadths, and fitted exactly; 
we next strewed the goats’ hair, mixed with 
wool obtained from the sheep, over the 
whole; on this surface we threw some hot 
water, in which a strong cement had been 
dissolved; the whole was then rolled up, 
and was beaten for a considerable time with 
hard sticks; the sail cloth was now unrolled, 
and the inside again sprinkled, rolled, and 
beaten as before; and this process was 
continued till the substance had become a sort 
of felt, which could be separated from the 
sail-cloth, and was lastly put in the sun to 
harden. We thus produced a very tolerable 
substitute for that enviable article of 
European comfort, a carpet: of these we 
completed two; one for our parlour, and the other 
for our drawing-room, as we jocosely named 
them, both of which were completely fit for 
our reception by the time the rains had set in.</p>

<p>All we had suffered during this season in 
the preceding year doubled the value of the 
comforts and conveniences with which we 
were now surrounded. We were never tired 
of admiring our warm and well-arranged 
apartments, lighted with windows, and well 
secured with doors from wind and rain, 
and our granary filled with more than a 
sufficient winter supply of food for ourselves 
and for our cattle. In the morning, our first 
care was to feed and give them drink; and 
both these were now constantly at hand, 
without the pains of fetching or preparing: after 
this we assembled in the parlour, where 
prayers were read, and breakfast immediately 
served: we then adjourned to the common 
room, where all sorts of industry went 
forward, and which contained the 
spinning-wheel and loom I had, though with 
indifferent success, constructed to gratify my wife. 
Here all united in the business of producing 
different kinds of substances, which she 
afterwards made into apparel. I had also 
contrived to construct a turning machine, having 
used for the purpose one of the small cannon 
wheels, with the help of which the boys and 
I managed to produce some neat utensils for 
general use. After dinner, our work was 
resumed till night, when we lighted candles; 
and as they cost no more than our own 
trouble in collecting and manufacturing the 
materials, we did not refuse ourselves the 
pleasure of using many at a time, to admire their 
lights splendidly reflected by the crystals 
every where pendent. We had formed a 
convenient portion of our dwelling into a small 
chapel, in which we left the crystals as 
produced by nature; and they exhibited a 
wondrous assemblage of colonnades, porticos, 
altars, which, when the place was lighted to 
supply the want of a window, presented a 
truly enchanting spectacle. Divine service 
was performed in it regularly every Sunday: 
I had raised a sort of pulpit, from which I 
pronounced such discourses as I had framed 
for the instruction of my affectionate group 
of auditors. The remainder of this day of 
rest was employed as before, in such 
recreations as tended to sustain cheerfulness, and 
fortify the bodily health of all. Jack and 
Francis had a natural inclination for music. 
I did the most I could in making a flageolet 
apiece for them of two reeds, on which they 
so frequently practised as to attain a tolerable 
proficiency; they accompanied their mother, 
who had a sweet-toned voice, the volume of 
which was doubled by the echoes of the 
grottos, and they produced together a very 
pleasing little concert.</p>

<p>Thus, as will be perceived, we had made 
the first steps towards a condition of 
civilization: separated from society, condemned 
perhaps to pass the remainder of life in this 
desert island, we yet possessed the means of 
happiness; we had abundance of all the 
necessaries, and many of the comforts desired 
by human beings! We had fixed habits of 
activity and industry; we were in ourselves 
serene and contented; our bodily health and 
strength increased from day to day; the 
sentiment of tender attachment was perfect in 
every heart: we every day acquired some 
new and still improving channel for the 
exertion of our physical and moral faculties; 
we everywhere beheld, and at all times 
acknowledged, marks of the divine wisdom and 
goodness; our minds were penetrated with 
love, gratitude, and veneration for the 
celestial Providence who had so miraculously 
rescued and preserved us, and conducted us to 
the true destination of man—to provide for 
the wants of his offspring by the labour of 
his hands: I trusted in the same goodness 
for restoring us once more to the society of 
our fellow-men, or for bestowing upon us 
the means of founding in this desert a happy 
and flourishing colony of human beings, and 
waiting in silence for the further 
manifestation of his holy will, we passed our days in 
a course of industry, innocent pleasures, and 
reciprocal affection. Nearly two years have 
elapsed without our perceiving the smallest 
trace of civilised or savage man; without the 
appearance of a single vessel or canoe upon 
the vast sea, by which we are surrounded. 
Ought we then to indulge a hope that we 
shall once again behold the face of a 
fellow-creature?—We encourage serenity and 
thankfulness in each other, and wait with 
resignation the event!</p>

<hr/>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2>Postscript by the Editor.</h2>

<p>I have presented the public, and in 
particular the sons of families, with the part I had 
in my possession of the journal of the Swiss 
pastor, who, with his family, were 
shipwrecked on a desert island. It cannot escape the 
observation of the parents who will read the 
work, that it exhibits a lively picture of the 
happiness which does not fail to result from 
the practice of moral virtues:—thus, in a 
situation that seemed calculated to produce 
despair, we see piety, affection, industry, and 
a generous concern for fellow-sufferings, 
capable of forming the basis of an unexpected 
state of serenity and happiness. We also 
see the advantage of including in the 
education of boys, such a knowledge of the natural 
productions of the earth, of the various 
combinations by which they may be rendered 
serviceable, and of the use of tools of every 
kind, as may qualify them to assist others, or 
preserve themselves under every possible 
occurrence of adversity or danger. It now 
remains for me to inform the reader by what 
means the journal of the Swiss pastor came 
into my possession.</p>

<p>Three or four years subsequent to the 
occurrence of the shipwreck of the pastor and 
his family, an English transport was driven 
by the violence of a tempest upon the same 
shore. The name of the vessel was the 
<i>Adventurer, Captain Johnson</i>: it was on a voyage 
from New Zealand to the eastern coast of 
North America, by Otaheita, in the South Seas 
to fetch a cargo of skins and furs for China, 
and to proceed from Canton to England. A 
violent tempest of several days’ duration drove 
it from its track. The vessel beat about in 
unknown seas for many days, and was now 
so injured by the weather, that the best hope 
of the captain and his company was to get 
into some port where they might refit. They 
at length discovered a rocky coast; and as the 
wind had somewhat abated, they made with 
all speed for the shore; when within a 
short distance, they cast their anchor, and put 
out a boat containing some of the officers, to 
examine the coast and find a place for 
landing: they rowed backward and forward for 
some time without success, from the rocky 
nature of the soil; at length they turned a 
promontory, and perceived a bay whose calm 
waters seemed to invite their approach; this 
was the <i>Safety Bay</i> of the wrecked islanders; 
the boat put on shore, and the officers with 
astonishment beheld the traces of the abode 
of man. A handsome well-conditioned 
pinnace and a small boat were there at anchor: 
near the strand, under a rock was a tent, and 
further on, in the rock, a house-door and 
windows announced European comforts and 
workmanship. The officers advanced towards 
the spot, and were met half-way by a man 
of middle age, dressed like a European and 
armed with a gun; the stranger accosted 
them with friendly tones and gestures; he 
spoke first German, and then some words in 
English. Lieutenant Bell, one of the 
English officers, who spoke the German 
language, answered. A mutual confidence 
immediately ensued. We need not add, that 
the stranger was the Family Robinson, whose 
wife and children happened at the moment 
to be at Falcon’s Stream:—he had 
discovered the English ship in the morning with his 
glass; and unwilling to alarm his family, he 
had come, perceiving she bore that way, 
alone to the coast.</p>

<p>After an interchange of cordial feelings, 
and a hospitable reception of the officers at 
the grotto, the Swiss pastor put his journal 
into the hands of Lieutenant Bell, to be 
conveyed to Captain Johnson, that he also might 
become acquainted with the story of the 
solitary islanders. After an hour’s conversation 
the newly found friends separated, in the 
pleasing expectation of meeting again on the 
following day.—But Heaven had otherwise 
ordained.</p>

<p>During the night the tempest revived with 
new terrors. The Adventurer could not be 
held at anchor, but was obliged to steer for 
safety to the bosom of the ocean. As there 
was no favourable change of weather for 
several days, the vessel was driven so far from 
the coast of Safety Bay, as to leave no 
possibility of returning, and Captain Johnson was 
compelled to renounce the gratification of 
seeing this extraordinary family, or of 
proposing to convey them all to Europe.</p>

<p>Captain Johnson brought the journal of 
the Swiss pastor to England, from whence it 
was transmitted to a friend in Switzerland, 
who has deemed its contents an instructive 
lesson to the world. There was found 
attached to the journal a rough sketch of the 
features of the island, which Lieutenant Bell 
thinks the Swiss pastor informed him was 
executed by his son Fritz.—The editor 
subjoins it, supposing it will be considered an 
object worthy of the interest of his young 
readers.</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a href="#notes" id="notes" class="pginternal"/>NOTES.</h2>

<p><a id="asterisk1"/><a href="#asterisk1text" class="pginternal">*</a> See the Introduction.</p>

<p><a id="asterisk2"/><a href="#asterisk2text" class="pginternal">*</a> Flamingo is a species of bird between the 
web-footed genus and the waders; it takes its name 
from the singular colour of its plumage, being of a 
bright flame-coloured red. This bird is to be found 
both in the old and the new continent; in the old 
continent, only in the southern climates; and in the new, 
no-where to the north of Carolina. The flamingo 
is a gregarious animal, frequenting the sea-shore and 
the marshes occasionally covered by the sea. When 
the flamingo sets out upon a fishing expedition, the 
birds range themselves in file, so as, at a distance, to 
produce the appearance of an extended line of 
soldiers; nor do they employ this arrangement only 
when they seek their prey, but also in a state of 
repose. Sometimes, however, a flamingo may be 
found alone, or with only a single companion, 
especially when at a distance from the sea. When drawn 
up in their military array, there are always sentinels 
fixed, who, in case of alarm, utter a loud cry capable 
of being heard at a great distance, and considerably 
resembling the sound of a trumpet: the sentinel 
then takes wing, and all the others follow: but 
whenever it is possible to come upon a flock of 
flamingoes without being observed by the sentinel, it is 
easy to pounce upon them and kill a great number. 
The report of a musket never induces them to take 
wing, but rather stupifies them; and they remain 
immovable, with their eyes fixed on the sportsman. 
They avoid all inhabited places, and live on the 
small fry of fish, or shell-fish, and on insects that 
they find in the mud, into which they plunge their 
long and singular beak. The flamingo builds its 
nest on the ground, and generally in marshes; they 
scrape the mud into a heap with their feet, so as to 
make little hillocks of a conical figure, and a foot 
and a half in height; the hillock is a little hollowed 
at the top; and in this hollow the female lays two 
or three eggs at most, upon which she sits; her legs, 
which are very long, resting upon the level ground, 
or plunged Into the water, while with the back part 
of her body she keeps the eggs in a proper state of 
warmth. The egg of the flamingo is white, and of 
the size of a goose’s egg, but more elliptical. The 
young ones run with inexpressible quickness 
in a few days after their birth, but do not begin 
to fly till they have acquired their full size. Their 
plumage is at first of a pale gray approaching to 
white; it grows redder as the young flamingo 
increases in age; but nearly a year elapses before this 
bird reaches its full stature; at which time it first 
shews its robe of a brilliant flame colour. The carnation 
hue first appears on the wing, which is always 
of the brightest tint; it then extends to the rump, and 
afterwards shows itself upon the back and breast, and 
as far as the neck, which is of a delicate rose colour. 
The flamingo is considered as a delicate morsel for 
the table, having some resemblance to the partridge 
in flavour: the tongue, which is very large, is 
particularly esteemed. They differ in stature, largeness, 
and colour; but this difference depends upon the age 
of the animal: when in full growth, the flamingo is 
more than four feet long from the beak to the tail, 
and neatly six feet high to the extremity of the 
talons. The neck and legs are extremely long; the 
plumage varies in colour on the different parts of 
the body, from a bright vermilion to a beautiful rose 
colour, and the legs and feet are of the same tint. 
There are however a few black feathers in each 
wing; the beak in some is red, and in others 
yellow; but the extremity in all is black.</p> 
<p style="text-align:right"><i>Noueveau Dictionnaire d’Historie Naturelle.</i></p>

<p><a id="note1"/><sup><a href="#note1text" class="pginternal">1</a></sup> <i>Penguin</i>; a bird of the goose kind, found near 
the Straits of Magellan. It is about the size of the 
Indian cock; the feathers on the back are black, and 
on the belly white. It has a large neck, circled 
round with a white collar. Properly speaking, it has 
no wings, but two pinions hang like two little arms 
from its sides, having no feathers beyond the joint. 
These pinions serve the purpose of fins in enabling 
the penguin to swim with ease, but it cannot fly. The 
tail is short, the feet black; the beak narrow, and 
rather larger than that of the raven. The bird 
carries its head erect in walking, and the pinions fall at 
its side; so that when many of them are seen in a line 
along the shore, where they are accustomed to 
assemble in large numbers, they may from a distance 
be mistaken for little men. Their flesh is well-tasted, 
but their skin is so tough that, but for the extreme 
stupidity of their nature, it would be difficult to 
destroy them.—See <i>Valmont de Bromare</i>.</p>

<p><a id="note2"/><sup><a href="#note2text" class="pginternal">2</a></sup> <i>Great bustard</i>; of the gallinaceous order. This 
is the largest bird of European climates, the male 
being four feet in length from the beak to the tail, 
seven in breadth with the wings extended, and 
weighing about thirty-five pounds. The females are 
commonly a third less in every respect. Though 
the wings of the bustard are small in proportion to 
the body, yet the bird can raise and sustain itself in 
the air, but, cannot proceed out of a straight 
direction. It loves open, spacious plains, and avoids the 
water. The bustard is timid and difficult of 
approach; it however defends itself furiously when 
attempted to be caught, by beating the enemy with its 
legs. If taken when young, it is easily tamed, and 
brought to feed with other poultry. The most 
common colour of this bird is black, slightly tinged with 
red on the back, and the under parts white mixed 
with fawn-colour; a down of bright pink appears at 
the roots of the feathers. There are many kinds of 
this animal, both indigenous and exotic: the African; 
the tufted; the blue; the white bustard, <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr>—See 
<i>New Dictionary of Natural History</i>.</p>

<p><a id="note3"/><sup><a href="#note3text" class="pginternal">3</a></sup> <i>Yguana</i>; a reptile of the family of lizards; it 
is found in South America and its islands. The 
animal is from four to six feet in length, of which 
the tail makes at least half. The head is small, 
flattened at the sides, covered with scales, and 
provided with large jaws and sharp-pointed teeth. A 
protuberance like a wen appears in the front of the 
neck. The body is every where clothed with hard 
scales. The colour of this creature is variable; its 
most common hue is green tinged with yellow; 
sometimes it exhibits gray or blue tints, and at others 
a mixture of all these colours together, like the 
cameleon, which the yguana greatly resembles.—See 
<i>New Dictionary of Natural History</i>.</p>

<p><a id="note4"/><sup><a href="#note4text" class="pginternal">4</a></sup> <i>Lizards</i>; The whole family are found to love 
music passionately; a sure means of attracting them 
is by musical sounds or whistling; in this manner 
the yguana is subdued. When the musician is 
sufficiently near, he plunges the end of a switch into 
the nostril of the animal, who dies instantly without 
pain.—<i>Dictionary of Natural History</i>.</p>

<p><a id="note5"/><sup><a href="#note5text" class="pginternal">5</a></sup> <i>Tetrix. (Canadian Heath Cock.)</i> This bird is 
found also in Maryland, Pennsylvania, and adjacent 
parts. Its modes of life are similar to the 
heath-cock of Europe, and is called by some authors 
simply the <i>crested heath-cock</i>. The head and neck are 
of a deep glossy black, which in all other parts is 
tinctured with green. The bill is covered with a 
yellow skin, except at the extremity, where it is bare 
and black; the eyes are also encircled with a skin of 
the same colour. On the top of its head there is a 
crest formed of several handsome feathers two inches 
and a half in length. The feathers on the neck, 
which are also of a beautiful fibre form, fall 
gracefully down; but when the creature is agitated, they 
as well as those on the head become erect. When 
he wishes to call his females round him, the feathers 
assume this state; he trains his wings on the ground 
and spreads his tail into the form of a wheel, and in 
the velocity of his motions makes a singular kind of 
noise like distant thunder or a muffled drum.—<i>New 
Dictionary of Natural History.</i></p>

<p><a id="note6"/><sup><a href="#note6text" class="pginternal">6</a></sup> <i>Myrica cerifera</i>, or <i>Waxtree</i>; it grows in 
Louisiana, and a smaller kind in Carolina. It is a pretty 
aquatic shrub and bears whitish-coloured flowers, the 
fruit of which hangs in small clusters. It is about the 
height of a very small cherry-tree, and in the form 
and smell of the leaves resembles the myrtle. The 
berries are of a gray colour, contain kernels which 
are covered with a kind of wax, of which the natives 
make good candles. Naturalists are of opinion that 
it might be easily made to flourish in other 
climates.—See <i>Valmont de Bromare</i>, and <i>Dictionary of 
Natural History</i>.</p>

<p><a id="note7"/><sup><a href="#note7text" class="pginternal">7</a></sup> <i>Tuiete</i>. This is the smallest kind of Brazilian 
parrot. There is an infinite variety in their plumage.</p>

<p><a id="note8"/><sup><a href="#note8text" class="pginternal">8</a></sup> Among others, <abbr>M.</abbr> Huber of Geneva: he has 
published a volume of his observations upon ants, no 
less agreeable than instructive in the perusal.</p>

<p><a id="note9"/><sup><a href="#note9text" class="pginternal">9</a></sup> See <i>History of the Insects of America</i>. By 
Mademoiselle Merian.</p>

<p><a id="note10"/><sup><a href="#note10text" class="pginternal">10</a></sup> <i>Caoutchouc</i>; The tree which furnishes <i>elastic gum</i>; 
it is called by the natives of Brazil, where it is 
produced, <i>Hhevé</i>.</p>

<p><a id="note11"/><sup><a href="#note11text" class="pginternal">11</a></sup> Of all the palm-trees which are natives of Asia, 
the <i>sago-palmist</i> is one of the most useful and 
interesting: a liquor runs from incisions made in its 
trunk, which readily ferments, and is Both salutary 
and agreeable for drinking. The marrow or pith 
of the tree, after undergoing a slight preparation, is 
the substance known by the name of sago in 
Europe, and so eminently useful in the list of nutritious 
food for the sick. The trunk and large leaves of the 
palmist-sago are a powerful resource in the 
construction of buildings; the first furnishes planks for the 
carpenter, and the second a covering for the roof. 
From the last are also made cord, matting, and other 
articles of domestic use.</p>

<p><a id="note12"/><sup><a href="#note12text" class="pginternal">12</a></sup> This species of the <i>orange</i>, or rather of the 
<i>citron-tree</i>, originally a native of Medea and Assyria, 
reaches in those countries to the astonishing height 
of sixty feet.—Dictionary of Natural History.</p>

<p><a id="note13"/><sup><a href="#note13text" class="pginternal">13</a></sup> <i>Cabbage palmist</i>.—Palmist is the generical and 
vulgar name for all palm-trees which bear at their 
tops a vegetable production which may be eaten 
before it has arrived at a state of maturity. What is 
called cabbage, is the closely-folded leaves, which 
assume the form of that plant, at the summit of the 
tree, which attains to a prodigious height in the 
Society Islands. This cabbage substance, when young, 
has a delicate flavour not unlike an artichoke, and is 
excellent fried; but the tree dies when the cabbage 
is cut off. This kind of palm, and indeed all others, 
has numerous uses. On cutting the cabbage, the 
tree yields some pints of a liquor similar to champaign, 
and which by the process of fermentation will 
afterwards produce good vinegar; and by distillation, a 
strong alcohol or brandy. Its seed or kernel furnishes 
a thick sweet oil or vegetable butter. The covering 
of the kernels is made into vessels and cups of all 
sorts, and is as strong as porcelain. The leaves are 
used as tiles on the roofs of houses, for parasols and 
coverings for the head, and may be written upon, 
like paper. Its ligneous stalk produces large threads 
for sewing, and for string. Some of the palms, the 
cocoa-palmist in particular, yields cool sweet liquid 
which by evaporation leaves a sugar of a tolerably 
good quality. In a word, the palm is a far-extended 
good, an inestimable treasure bestowed by a 
bountiful Providence on the inhabitants of the soil which 
produces it.</p>

<p><a id="note14"/><sup><a href="#note14text" class="pginternal">14</a></sup> <i>Buffalo</i>; a ruminating quadruped of the ox 
species, which it nearly resembles in form and stature; 
the head is larger, the snout longer, and its horns, 
which almost touch at the root, spread to a distance 
of five feet at their extremities: its ears are also 
larger and pointed. The whole form of the 
buffalo, and no less its motions, announce amazing 
vigour and strength; but the enormous size of the 
head, the singular curvatures of its long horns, under 
which appears a large tuft of bristly hair of a 
yellowish white colour, give a terrific ferocity and 
wildness to its physiognomy. The animal inhabits hot 
countries. It is used in Italy as a domestic beast 
for tillage and drawing. The method adopted for 
taming the buffalo is by fixing a ring in the nostril 
when about three years old. The operator contrives 
to entangle the legs with a string, and the animal 
falls to the ground; several men fall upon it and 
confine the legs, while others make the wound and 
pass the ring; it is then left: it runs furiously from 
place to place, and endeavours to get rid of the 
ring; in a short time it begins to be accustomed to 
its fate, and by degrees to learn obedience. A cord 
is fastened to the ring to lead the buffalo; if it 
resists, it suffers pain; it therefore prefers to yield, and 
thus is brought to follow a conductor willingly. After 
a certain time, the ring falls off, but the creature has, 
ere this, become attached, and will follow its master. 
Nothing is more common than to see a buffalo return 
from a distance of forty miles to seek him. Their 
young keepers give them a name, which they never 
fail to answer to, and on hearing it pronounced they 
stop short in the midst of a company of their species. 
Troops of buffaloes are found together in the plains 
of America and Asia that are washed by rivers; 
they do not attack men unless provoked; but the 
report of a gun renders them furious, and extremely 
dangerous: they run straight to the enemy, throw 
him down with their horns, and do not desist till he 
is crushed to death in the struggle. A red colour 
irritates them, and they are hunted with infinite care 
and precaution.—<i>Dictionary of Natural History</i>.</p>

<div><a id="note15"/>
<p><sup><a href="#note15text" class="pginternal">15</a></sup> <i>Prickly palm</i>, or <i>Adam’s needle</i>.—The leaves of 
this tree are sometimes ten feet in length; they are 
winged in form, and the petals are furnished with 
long sharp thorns, which stay on the trunk even 
when the leaves are decayed, and form, from their 
numbers and strength, a sure defence against being 
approached. The fruit of this tree is larger than a 
pigeon’s egg, of an oblong shape, of a yellow colour, 
and like velvet to the touch. A yellow oily 
substance is found in the covering of the fruit, which is 
greedily eaten by monkeys, cows, and other animals. 
An oil for cooking or for the lamp is also extracted 
from it.</p>

<p><i>Dwarf palm</i>.—The fruit is yellow, and contains 
grains inclosed in a cuticle, somewhat sour to the 
taste. Savages make an agreeable kind of beverage 
from them. The leaf, like the former, is 
thorny.—<i>Dictionary of Natural History</i>.</p>
</div>

<p><a id="note16"/><sup><a href="#note16text" class="pginternal">16</a></sup> <i>Malabar</i> or <i>Indian Eagle</i>, is small; not above 
the size of a large pigeon; but in the smallness of 
its volume elegance of symmetry and beauty of 
plumage are united; the animation of its eyes, its 
lively movements, the boldness of its look and attitudes, 
give to its whole physiognomy the appearance of 
pride and courage. The Malayese have made it one 
of their idols, and offer it a kind of worship. A tuft 
of large feathers of a dazzling white, the lower part 
of which is of a deep shining black, covers the head, 
the neck, and all the breast of this handsome bird; 
the rest of the plumage is of a very bright 
chesnut-colour, with the exception of the tip of the six first 
feathers of each wing, which is black. The beak 
is ash-coloured, and of a yellowish green at the 
point; its membrane is blue, feet yellow, talons 
black. This species is found in Malabar, Visapour, 
the Mogul Empire, <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr> In voracity it does not fall 
short of any other.—<i>Dictionary of Natural History</i>.</p>

<p><a id="note17"/><sup><a href="#note17text" class="pginternal">17</a></sup> Mr. Huber Lullin, of Geneva, has published 
an excellent treatise on the economy of <i>bees</i> he has 
given the most singular and best-attested 
circumstances of the queen bee; but what more astonishes 
is, that he, who has thrown such lights on this 
attractive object of natural history, is blind.</p>

<p><a id="note18"/><sup><a href="#note18text" class="pginternal">18</a></sup> <i>Onagra</i>, <i>Œigitai</i> and <i>Koulan</i>;—apparently different 
names for the same animal, varying according to the 
countries where, it is found and authors who have 
spoken of it: in shape and structure it holds the 
midway betwixt the horse and ass; its head is strong 
and erect in the state of rest; it proudly snuffs the air 
in its course, which is more fleet than the 
swiftest horse. Its neck finely turned, chest full and 
open, back long, spine concave and rough, haunches 
taper, hoofs like the ass, mane short and thick, the 
jaw containing thirty-four teeth, tail two feet long, 
and exactly like a cow’s, shoulders narrow and bare of 
flesh: it has great suppleness in all its members and 
motions. The hair is mostly of a yellowish brown; 
a reddish yellow covers the fore-part of the head, and 
between the legs; the mane and tail are black. Along 
the back is a dark-brown stripe, that grows broader 
from the loins upwards, and becomes narrower 
towards the tail. In winter its hair is long, curled, 
waving; in summer short and glossy. These 
animals stray in numbers over the vast deserts and open 
plains abounding with saline herbage: they never 
approach the woods or mountains. They have the 
senses of hearing and smelling in perfection. Their 
neighing, somewhat peculiar, is much louder than 
that of the horse. They are timid and wild, and 
their chief defence is in their speed; yet they are of 
a peaceful, social nature. They commonly troop 
together from twenty to thirty, sometimes a hundred: 
each troop has its leader that watches over its safety, 
conducts it, and gives the signal of flight when 
danger is near. The token of alarm is bounding thrice 
round the object of their fear. If their leader is 
killed, (and he frequently is, by approaching closer 
to the hunters than the rest,) the troop disperses, and 
it is easy to kill and take them. The Mongou 
Tartars highly prize the flesh, which they find delicious; 
but the œigitai has not yet been tamed, even when 
taken young. Could it be domesticated, it would 
doubtless be a prime beast for the saddle, but it is of 
an untameable disposition; when the utmost 
attempts have been made to subdue them, they have 
died in breaking rather than submit to the restraint. 
If our Swiss Robinson succeeded by the extraordinary 
means he specifies, it was a complete triumph. The 
name of œigitai, applied to the onagra or wild ass in 
the countries where it is most common, comes from 
the word <i>dshiggetei</i>, which in the Tartar language 
means <i>long ears</i> in fact its ears are very long, but 
more erect, and better shaped, than those of the ass.</p>

<p><a id="note19"/><sup><a href="#note19text" class="pginternal">19</a></sup> <i>Phormion</i>, or <i>Flax-plant</i>;—a plant of New Zealand 
made known by Cook. The inhabitants of that 
island get from its leaves a very strong flax, with 
which they make stuffs, nets, ropes, <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr> They are 
two or three feet long, two inches broad, shaped like 
a sword. Steeped in water, they produce fibres 
longer and stronger than those of flax, and which are 
equal in fineness. The climate where this useful 
plant is found, inclines one to think it might be 
cultivated with success in Europe, and turned to 
considerable account. When these leaves are opened upon 
the plant, an inodorous gum issues from them, which 
is transparent, of a straw-colour, and in every respect 
similar to gum arabic.</p>

<p><a id="note20"/><sup><a href="#note20text" class="pginternal">20</a></sup> <i>Sal-gem</i>;—a name given to a kind of salt harder 
than common salt, and which sometimes has the 
transparency and colour of precious stones. It is 
found invariably in the same soil as gypsum, in the 
neighbourhood of which constant observation has 
proved it to be never wanting; and even the strata of 
salt and gypsum frequently alternate. The sal-gem 
forms itself sometimes into large undivided beds, 
sometimes it runs in large detached cubes, behind 
beds of clay and rock. The mines (I may say the 
quarries) of sal-gem are found at every height, and 
now and then on a level with the plains. In all parts 
of the known world no production of nature is more 
abundant than salt. Most of the sal-gem mines in 
Spain and England are of several hundred feet extent. 
The town of Cardona in Spain is situated at the foot 
of a rock of solid salt, rising almost perpendicular to 
the height of four or five hundred feet, without 
interstice, fissure, or separate layer. This immense 
mass of salt is about a league in circuit: its depth, 
and consequently the bed on which it rests, is 
unknown. From top to bottom the salt is of the purest 
white, or of a light transparent blue. This prodigious 
mountain of salt, quite free from gypsum and other 
extraneous matter, is the only one of the kind in 
Europe. In the county of Chester in England, near 
the Irish sea, is a very extensive mine of sal-gem 
behind a ledge of rock; and after having worked 
through twenty-five feet of salt, in several places of a 
fine deep red, from twelve to fifteen feet of rock again 
appeared, and salt under that; a fact which destroys 
the hypothesis of sal-gem being produced from saline 
lakes dried up.—<i>Dictionary of Natural History</i>.</p>

<p><a id="note21"/><sup><a href="#note21text" class="pginternal">21</a></sup> <i>Sea Dog</i>; a sea fish; partakes in some 
respects of the nature of the shark.—See <i>Dictionary of 
Natural History.</i></p>

<p><a id="note22"/><sup><a href="#note22text" class="pginternal">22</a></sup> <i>Gypsum</i>.—A mineral substance composed of 
chalk and sulphurous acid: in strictness it may be 
considered as a neutral salt; but being soluble only 
in a small degree, and having the external character 
of stone, mineralogists class it as a stony substance. 
It has abundance of varieties.</p>

<p><a id="note23"/><sup><a href="#note23text" class="pginternal">23</a></sup> <i>Black Swan</i>;—Discovered by <abbr>M.</abbr> de la 
Billardiere on a lake of New Zealand.</p>

<p><a id="note24"/><sup><a href="#note24text" class="pginternal">24</a></sup> <i>Beast with a bill</i>.—This singular creature was, 
like the last, discovered in a lake of New Zealand; 
a particular account of it may be found in 
Blumenbach’s Natural History, published in Germany.</p>

<p><a id="note25"/><sup><a href="#note25text" class="pginternal">25</a></sup> <i>Arcadia</i>, according to the poets was the most 
beautiful and the happiest of all countries.</p>
