<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>IX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-9" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">Change of abode.</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p><span class="smcap">As</span> soon as we were all up and had breakfasted, the next morning, I assembled all the members of my family together, to take with them a solemn farewell of this our first place of reception from the horrible disaster of the shipwreck. I confess that for my own part I could not leave it without much regret; it was a place of greater safety than we were likely again to meet with; it was also nearer to the vessel: but it was sufficient for me to know that the kind and faithful companion of my misfortunes had conceived an unalterable distaste for it, to incline me to yield my own opinion and my wishes. I should indeed consider myself unworthy of such a partner, if I could have felt hesitation in a point of so much interest to her feelings. I thought it right to represent strongly to my sons, particularly to the youngest, the danger of exposing themselves as they had done the evening before, along the river. We are now going, continued I, to inhabit an unknown country, which is not so well protected by nature as that we are leaving; we are unacquainted both with the soil and its inhabitants, whether human creatures or beasts; it is therefore necessary to use the utmost caution, to make it a rule never to remain separate from each other; particularly you young ones must take care not to run on before, or stay too far behind. This you must promise, my boys. Having unburdened my mind of this necessary charge, we prepared for setting out. I directed my sons to assemble our whole flock of animals, and to leave the ass and the cow to me, that I might load them with the sacks as before concerted; I had filled these at the two ends, and made a slit longways in the middle of each of them, and to each side of the slits I tied several long pieces of cord, which crossing each other and being again brought round and fastened, served to hold the sacks firmly on the back of the animal. We next began to put together all the things we should stand most in need of, for the two or three first days, in our new abode; working implements, kitchen utensils, the captain’s service of plate, and a small provision of butter, <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr> <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr> I put these articles into the two ends of each sack, taking care that the sides should be equally heavy, and then fastened them on. I next added our hammocks and other coverings to complete the load, and we were about to begin our march when my wife stopped me. I cannot prevail upon myself, said she, to leave our fowls behind us to pass the night by themselves; for I fear they would infallibly become the prey of the jackalls. We must, somehow or other, contrive a place for them among the luggage, and also one for our little Francis, who cannot walk so far, and on that account would not fail to interrupt our speed. There is also my enchanted bag, which I recommend to your particular care, said she, smiling, for who can tell what may yet pop out of it for your good pleasure!</p>
			<p>Women, for their part, never fail to have more things to carry than there are places to put them in, said I, also laughing: however, let us see how handsomely I shall be able to provide for what belongs to you, my love. Fortunately, I had already thought of making the ass’s load as light as possible, foreseeing that it would be necessary he should carry our little one a part of the way. I now accordingly placed the child upon his back, fixing the enchanted bag in such a way as to support him, and I tied them together upon the ass with so many cords, that the animal might even have galloped without any danger of his falling off.</p>
			<p>In the mean while, the other boys had been running after the cocks and hens and the pigeons, but had not succeeded in catching one of them; so they returned empty-handed and in ill-humour. Little blockheads! said their mother, see how you have heated yourselves in running after these untractable creatures! I could have put you in a way to catch them in a moment; come along with me, and see.—Yes, yes, you may think so, mother, said Jack, a little sulky, but I will give you leave to roast me in the place of the first fowl that you shall be able to catch. Poor Jack, said she laughing, you will then soon be on the spit, I can tell you; which would really be a pity, considering what better things we might do with you; though, to say the truth, you have not shown that you have more brains than a goose, in thinking to catch the animals by running after them in this manner. She now stepped into the tent, and brought out two handfuls of peas and oats, and by pronouncing a few words of invitation in the accustomed tone, the birds all flocked round her in a moment. She then walked slowly before them, dropping the grain all the way, till they had followed her into the tent. When she perceived that they were all in the inside, and busily employed in picking up the grain, she shut the entrance, and caught one after the other without the smallest difficulty. The boys looked at each other half-ashamed, though much amused with the adventure. Grant me a reprieve from the spit, mother, cried Jack, and I will do all I can to help you in securing your prisoners. Accordingly, he set himself to work, and had soon caught the whole. They were then tied by the feet and wings, put into a basket covered with a net, and placed in triumph on the top of our luggage. Ernest suggested the placing two bent sticks arch-ways across the basket, and throwing a blanket over it, that the want of light might incline them to repose; for, with the clatter they made, it was impossible to hear each other speak.</p>
			<p>We packed up every thing we were obliged to leave, and placed it in the tent, which we carefully closed, and, for greater security, fastened down the ends of the sail-cloth at the entrance, by driving stakes through them into the ground. We ranged a number of vessels, both full and empty, round the tent, to serve as a rampart, and thus we confided to the protection of heaven our remaining treasures. At length we set ourselves in motion: each of us, great and small, carried a gun upon his shoulder, and a game bag at his back. Children are always fond of a change of place; ours were full of joy and good-humour; nor was their mother less affected with the same cause; she walked before with her eldest son, the cow and the ass immediately behind them; the goat conducted by Jack came next; the little monkey was seated on the back of his nurse, and made a thousand grimaces. After the goats, came Ernest, conducting the sheep, while I, in my capacity of general superintendant, followed behind and brought up the rear; the dogs for the most part paraded backwards and forwards, thus seeming to play the part of adjutants. Our march was slow, and there was something solemn and patriarchal in the spectacle we exhibited; I fancied we must resemble our forefathers journeying in the deserts, accompanied by their families and their possessions. Now then, Fritz, cried I, you have the specimen you wished for of the patriarchal mode of life; what do you think of it? I like it much, father, replied he: I never read the Bible without wishing I had lived in those good times.</p>
			<p>And I too, said Ernest, I am quite delighted with it, I cannot help fancying myself not merely a patriarch but a Tartar, or an Arab, and that we are about to discover I know not how many new and extraordinary things. Is it not true, father, that the Tartars and the Arabs pass their lives in journeying from one place to another, and carrying all they have about them?</p>
			<p>It is certainly for the most part true, Ernest, replied I, and they are denominated wandering tribes; but they generally perform their journeys attended by horses and camels, by means of which they can proceed a little faster, than if, like us, they had only an ass and a cow. For my part, I should not be sorry if I were quite sure that the pilgrimage we are now making, would be our last.</p>
			<p>And I too am of your way of thinking, cried my wife, and I hope that in our new abode we shall be so well satisfied with the shade of such luxuriant trees, that we shall not be inclined to rove. Let us, however, think as little as possible of the fatigue which seems to be our lot today, since tomorrow you will all be ready to thank me for having been the occasion of it.</p>
			<p>Be assured, my dear, said I, that we have adopted your plans, and endure the fatigue they occasion, with cheerfulness, and that one and all, are already grateful to you for their future happiness; which happiness will be still increased by the reflection, that to your kind and anxious exertions it has been that we are indebted for it.</p>
			<p>We had now reached our bridge, and advanced half way across it, when the sow for the first time took the fancy of joining us, and, by the uncouth and listless figure she made, contributed to the pictorial effect of our procession. At the moment of our departure, she had shown herself so restive and indocile, that we had been compelled to leave her behind us; but when she saw that we had all left the place, she set out voluntarily to overtake us: but she took care to apprize us, by her continual grunting, that she disapproved of our migration.</p>
			<p>On the other side of the river, we experienced an inconvenience wholly unexpected. The nutritious aspect of the grass, which grew here in profusion, was too strong a temptation for our animals, who, unable to resist, strayed from us in every direction to feed voluptuously upon it; so that, without the assistance of our dogs, we should not have been able to bring them back to the line of our procession. These active creatures were of great use to us on this occasion, and when every thing was restored to proper order, we were able to continue our journey. For fear however of a similar occurrence, I directed our march to the left, along the sea side, where there was not a sufficient quantity of grass to attract them.</p>
			<p>But scarcely had we advanced a few steps on the sands, when our two dogs, which had stayed behind among the grass, set up a loud barking, mixt at intervals with howling, as if they had been wounded, or were engaged in an encounter with some formidable animal. Fritz in an instant lifted his gun to his cheek, and was ready to fire; Ernest, always somewhat timid, drew back to his mother’s side; Jack ran bravely after Fritz with his gun upon his shoulder; while I, fearing the dogs might be attacked by some dangerous wild beast, prepared myself to run to their assistance. But youth is always full of ardour; and in spite of all my exhortations that they would advance with caution, my boys, eager for the event, made but three jumps to the place from which the noise proceeded. In an instant Jack had turned to meet me, clapping his hands and calling out, Come quickly, father, come quickly, here is a monstrous porcupine!</p>
			<p>I soon reached the spot, and perceived that it was really as they said, bating a little exaggeration. The dogs were running to and fro with bloody noses, about the animal; and when they approached too near him, he made a frightful noise, and darted his quills so suddenly at them, that a great number had penetrated the skins of our valiant dogs, and remained sticking in them; and it was no doubt the pain they occasioned, which made them howl so violently.</p>
			<p>While we were looking on, Jack determined on an attack, which succeeded marvellously well. He took one of the pistols which he carried in his belt, and aimed it so exactly at the head of the porcupine, that he fell dead the instant he fired, and before we had a notion of what he was about. This success raised Jack to the height of joy and vanity; while Fritz, on the other hand, felt a sensation of jealousy almost to shedding tears. Is it right, Jack, said he, that such a little boy as you, should venture to fire off a pistol in this manner? How easily might you have wounded my father or me, or one of the dogs, by so rash an action! Oh yes, to be sure, and what do you suppose hindered me from seeing that you were all behind me? Do you think I fired without taking care of that? Do you take me for an idiot? The porcupine could tell you about that, brother Fritz, if he could but speak. My first fire—pop—dead as a herring! This is something like, brother Fritz, and you would be glad enough to have had such a chance yourself!</p>
			<p>Fritz only replied by a motion of his head. He was out of humour, because his younger brother had deprived him of the honour of the day; and he sought a subject of complaint against him, as the wolf did with the poor little lamb. Come, come, boys, said I, let me hear no envious speeches and no reproaches; luck for one to-day, for another to-morrow; but all for the common good. Jack was, perhaps, a little imprudent, but you must allow that he showed both skill and courage; let us not therefore tarnish the glory of his action. We now all got round the extraordinary animal, on whom nature has bestowed a strong defence, by arming his body, all over, with long spears. The boys were absolutely at a loss what means to use for carrying away his carcase. They thought of dragging it along the ground; but as often as they attempted to take hold, there was nothing but squalling, and running to show the marks made by his quills on their hands. We must leave him behind, said they; but it is a great pity.</p>
			<p>Not for an empire, cried Jack, shall he be left there, for my mother must have a sight of him. In saying this, he tied one corner of his handkerchief round the neck of the animal, and drew him by the other to the place where we had left his mother in care of our possessions, and who had been in great uneasiness at our long absence.</p>
			<p>Here is the monster, mother, said he, armed with his hundred thousand spears; but I was a match for him, and at one fire too! His flesh is excellent food; at least papa says so.</p>
			<p>Ernest began, with his usual coolness, to examine the animal minutely. After having looked at him a long while, he said, He is a most singular animal; his mouth contains the <i>dentes incisores</i>, and his ears and feet are much like those of a man.</p>
			<p>Ah! said Jack, if you had seen how he darted out all his quills against the dogs, and the noise they made, rattling one against another! He is a most terrible creature; but what of that? I did not mind going up to him, and I dispatched two or three balls at his head, and it was over with him in an instant!</p>
			<p>He cannot be so terrible an animal, said Ernest, if it was so easy for a mere child to destroy him. <i>A mere child!</i> replied Jack, much mortified, and drawing up his head. It was plain that his conquest had added half a foot to his height, in his own imagination.</p>
			<p>While the boys were disputing, my wife and I had hastened to relieve the dogs, by drawing out the quills and examining their wounds. Having done this, we joined the group which surrounded the porcupine; Jack taking upon him to do the honours, as if he was showing the animal at a fair. Observe, cried he, what a terrible creature it is! how long and hard his quills are! and see what strange feet he has! I am sure he must have run like a hare: but I killed him for all that! And what a singular sort of crest he has on his head! Upon my word, I like my day’s work vastly.</p>
			<p>That, said I, is the reason why naturalists call him the crested porcupine. But now tell me, my young hero, were you not afraid, in going so near him, that he would dart some of his quills at you?</p>
			<p><i>Jack.</i>—Oh no, papa, I knew that the stories about his quills, were merely fabulous.</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>—But you saw that many of them had stuck in the dogs, and this, surely, was no fable.</p>
			<p><i>Jack.</i>—That was because the dogs attacked the animal furiously from behind, thus putting themselves exactly in the way of his quills, so that it is not extraordinary that they should be wounded by them; but I took care to attack him in front, in which direction I knew he would not shoot them, so I had no reason to be afraid. Is it not also a fable, father, that when they escape the hunter, they throw their quills as they run, and sometimes kill him with them?</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>—This account is, I believe, in a great measure untrue; but it is not improbable that it was such an occurrence as we just now met with, which first gave rise to the notion. An observation no less singular than true, has been made, that natural history, whose basis ought to be the strictest truth, has given birth to more fables than mythology itself. In general, mankind are fond of the marvellous, and the composed march of nature is uninteresting to them, from its simple uniformity. They accordingly dress her with all the singularities and extravagancies of their own imaginations. But tell me, Jack, what you mean to do with your prize? Are we to take it with us, or leave it here?</p>
			<p><i>Jack.</i>—Oh, take it with us, take it with us, father, I entreat, for you say its flesh is good to eat.</p>
			<p>I could not resist his pressing importunity, and I resolved to lay the porcupine on the back of the ass, behind little Francis, first having wrapped his bloody head in a quantity of grass, and then rolled him up in a blanket to protect my boy from his quills. We now resumed our journey, but had not proceeded far, when the ass began to kick furiously with his hind legs; tore himself away from my wife, who was guiding him, and set off full gallop, braying so loud, as almost to deafen us, and scampering from side to side in so extraordinary a way, that the boys were thrown into fits of laughter; in which my wife and I should probably have joined, if we had not conceived the idea, that the situation of our little Francis was not quite safe. A sign we made to the dogs, made them set off like lightning after the deserter, whom they in a moment overtook, and stopped his way with a tremendous barking. They would no doubt have attacked him violently, if we had not ourselves run quickly to the spot, to intimidate them. We took our boy from the ass’s back, delighted to find that (thanks to the care I had taken in tying him on securely) he had kept his seat, and had scarcely even experienced any alarm. But tell me, Francis, said I jocosely, have you been clapping spurs to your horse, or what have you done to make him set off on a gallop in this manner? I no sooner pronounced these words, than suddenly I recollected the porcupine. I immediately examined if the quills had not penetrated through the covering in which I wrapped it: this I found to be the very thing: though I had folded it three times double, the quills had pierced through all, and produced the effect of the sharpest spur on the poor animal. I soon found a remedy for this inconvenience, by placing my wife’s enchanted bag, which was filled with articles of a nature to be absolutely impenetrable, between the ass’s back and the dead animal. I now restored Francis to his place, exhorting him to keep in an upright posture, and we then resumed our journey.</p>
			<p>Fritz had run on before with his gun, hoping he should meet with some animal of prey. What he most desired, was to find one or two of those large bustards which his mother had described to him. We followed him at our leisure, taking care not to expose our health by unnecessary fatigue; till at last, without further accident or adventure, we arrived at the place of the giant trees. Such, indeed, we found them, and our astonishment exceeded all description. Good heavens! what trees! what a height! what trunks! I never heard of any so prodigious! exclaimed one and all. Nothing can be more rational than your admiration, answered I, measuring them with my eyes as I spoke. I must confess I had not myself formed an idea of the reality. To you be all the honour, my dear wife, for the discovery of this agreeable abode, in which we shall enjoy so many comforts and advantages. The great point we have to gain, is the fixing a tent large enough to receive us all, in one of these trees, by which means we shall be perfectly secure from the invasion of wild beasts. I defy even one of the bears, who are so famous for mounting trees, to climb up by a trunk so immense, and so destitute of branches.</p>
			<p>We began now to release our animals from their burdens, having first thrown our own on the grass. We next used the precaution of tying their two fore legs together with a cord, that they might not go far away, or lose themselves. We restored the fowls to liberty; and then, seating ourselves upon the grass, we held a family council on the subject of our future establishment. I was myself somewhat uneasy on the question of our safety during the ensuing night; for I was ignorant of the nature of the extensive country I beheld around me, and of what chance there might be of our being attacked by different kinds of wild beasts. I accordingly observed to my wife, that I would make an endeavour for us all to sleep in the tree that very night. While I was deliberating with her on the subject, Fritz, who thought of nothing but his sporting, and of his desire to take his revenge of the porcupine adventure, had stolen away to a short distance, and we heard the report of a gun. This would have alarmed me, if, at the same moment, we had not recognised Fritz’s voice crying out, I touched him! I touched him! and in a moment we saw him running towards us, holding a dead animal of uncommon beauty by the paws. Father, father, look, here is a superb tiger cat, said he, proudly raising it in the air, to show it to the best advantage. Bravo! bravo! cried I; bravo, Nimrod the undaunted! Your achievement will call forth the unbounded gratitude of our cocks and hens and pigeons, for you have rendered them what no doubt they will think an important service. If you had not killed this animal, he would no doubt have destroyed in the course of one night our whole stock of poultry. I charge you look about in every direction, and try to destroy as many of the species as fall in your way, for we cannot have more dangerous intruders.</p>
			<p><i>Ernest.</i>—I wish, father, you would be so good as to tell me why God created wild beasts, since man seems to be appointed to destroy them?</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>—This indeed is a question I cannot answer, and we must be contented with taking care to arm ourselves against them: neither can I explain to you, why many other things, which to us appear to have only injurious qualities, have been created. With respect to beasts of prey, I am inclined to believe, that one of the ends of Providence, in giving them existence, is their embellishing and varying the works of the creation; of maintaining a necessary equilibrium among creatures endowed with life; and lastly, to furnish man, who comes naked into the world, with materials for protecting him from the cold, by the use of their skins, which become the means of exchange and commerce between different nations. We may also add, that the care of protecting himself from the attacks of ferocious animals, invigorates the physical and moral powers of man, supports his activity, and renders him inventive and courageous. The ancient Germans, for example, were rendered robust and valiant warriors, through their habitual exercises in the field, which enabled them, at a time of need, to defend their country and their liberty, with as little difficulty, as they would have experienced in killing a wolf or a bear.</p>
			<p><i>Jack.</i>—But what do you say of the insects, which feed on living human flesh, and who neither contribute their skins for the wants of man, nor to his health by exciting him to pursue them in the field? Of what use are such creatures as these?</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>—They serve, my son, to exercise his patience, and to compel him to a constant cleanliness, which contributes to a perfect state of health. But let us return to the animal Fritz has killed. Tell me all the particulars of your adventure. How did you kill him?</p>
			<p><i>Fritz.</i>—With my pistol, father, as Jack killed the porcupine.</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>—Was he on this tree, just by us?</p>
			<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Yes, father, I had been observing that something moved among the branches. I went softly as near as I could; and on seeing him, I knew him for a tiger cat. I immediately fired, when he fell at my feet wounded and furious; and then I fired a second time, and killed him.</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>—You were very fortunate in escaping thus, for he might easily have devoured you. You should always take care, in aiming at animals of this kind, to be at a greater distance.</p>
			<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Why so, father? I might have missed him if I had been further off. I, on the contrary, tried to be as near him as possible, and fired close to his ears.</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>—This was acting in the same way as your brother Jack, whom you so much derided for his want of care, and may serve you as a lesson not to blame in your brothers, what you would yourself be perhaps obliged to do in the same situation; and not to interrupt their joy with unkind reflections, but rather to partake with them the pleasure of their success.</p>
			<p><i>Fritz.</i>—Well, father; all I now ask of Jack is, that he will be so good as not to spoil the beautiful skin of this animal, as he did that of the jackall. Only observe what beautiful figures it is marked with, and the fine effect of the black and yellow spots; the most richly manufactured stuff could not exceed it in magnificence. What is the exact name of the animal?</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>—You may for the present give it the name of the tiger cat. I do not, however, think that it is the animal which is so denominated at the Cape of Good Hope; I rather think it is the margay, a native of America, an animal of extremely vicious dispositions and singular voraciousness; he destroys all the birds of the forest, and neither a man, a sheep, or goat, that should fall in his way, could escape his rapacity. In the name of humanity, therefore, we ought to be thankful to you, for having destroyed so formidable an enemy.</p>
			<p><i>Fritz.</i>—All the recompense I ask, father, is, that you will let me keep the skin; and I wish you would tell me what use I can make of it.</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>—One idea occurs to me, and it is this:—you must skin the animal yourself, taking the greatest care not to injure it in the operation, particularly those parts which cover the fore legs and the tail. If you will do this, you may make yourself a belt with it, like your brother Jack’s, except that it will be much more beautiful. The odd pieces will serve admirably to make some cases to contain our utensils for the table, such as knives, forks, spoons; and as they will be light, we can easily carry them about with us, should we make any further excursions. It is not amiss, in such a situation as ours, to exercise ourselves in all kinds of trades and manual labour, and to do every thing with the utmost care, and in the best manner possible. Man, the lord of the creation, should always aim at perfection. Go, then, boy, and put away its bloody head, and we will see how to set about preparing the skin.</p>
			<p><i>Jack.</i>—And I too, father, will make some cases with the skin of my porcupine.</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>—And why should you not, my boy? The skin of the tiger cat, can only furnish us with four, and we ought to have six at least, which will be one a-piece. So set to work, and show us quickly what you can perform. I should like for you to preserve some of the quills of your porcupine for me; for I think I can contrive to convert them into packing-needles, or into arrows; and what bits of skin are left, may serve to repair the dogs’ collars when they begin to wear; or, which would be a masterpiece of invention, might be joined together and made into a sort of coat of mail, as a protection to them when they have to encounter wild beasts.</p>
			<p><i>Jack.</i>—Oh! yes, father, I will make the coat of mail, the coat of mail! Ernest, Fritz, did you hear what papa said? Why, our dogs will look like a couple of knights of chivalry. The idea is most excellent; how I shall like to see them with a coat of mail!</p>
			<p>The boys left me no moment of repose till I had shown them how to take off the skins of the animals without tearing them. In the mean while, Ernest looked about for a flat stone as a sort of foundation for a fire-place, and little Francis collected some pieces of dry wood for his mother to light a fire. Ernest was not long in finding what he wanted, and then he ran to join us and give us his assistance, or rather to reason right or wrong on the subject of skinning animals; and then on that of trees; making various comments and inquiries, respecting the real name of those we intended to inhabit. It is my opinion, said he, that they are really and simply, enormously large hazel trees; see if the leaf is not of exactly the same form. But that is no proof, interrupted I; for many trees bear leaves of the same shape, but nevertheless are of different kinds. Besides, it appears to me, that there is not so great a resemblance as you think, between the leaves of the trees which grow here, and those of the hazel, the former being of a paler colour, and white underneath. I recollect too, that there is the wild mango and also the fig-tree, whose roots grow in the same manner as our giant trees, forming a beautiful arch, and sometimes reaching to an immeasurable height.</p>
			<p><i>Ernest.</i>—I thought, father, that the mango tree only grew on the sea-shore, and in marshy soils?</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>—You were not mistaken; it is the black mango tree which loves the water. But there is, besides, the red mango, which bears its fruit in bunches, something like our currant bushes. This kind of the mango tree, is found at a considerable distance from the sea, and its wood is used for dyeing red. There is a third sort, which is called the mountain mango, or yellow wood, and this is the kind, whose roots produce the beautiful arches you now see around us.</p>
			<p>We conversed thus as we proceeded with our work; for it was always my endeavour to compensate to my children, as much as I was able, our want of books for their instruction. Little Francis presently came running loaded with dry branches for his mother, with his mouth crammed full of something, and calling out, Mamma, mamma, I have found a nice fruit to eat, and I have brought you home some of it!</p>
			<p>Little glutton! replied his mother quite alarmed, what have you got there? For Heaven’s sake, do not swallow, in this imprudent manner, the first thing that falls in your way; for by this means you may be poisoned, and then you would die. She made him open his mouth, and took out with her finger, what he was eating with so keen a relish. With some difficulty she drew out the remains of a fig. A fig! exclaimed I: where did you find it? Thank God, this is no poison! But nevertheless, remember, Francis, that you are never to put any thing into your mouth, without first showing it to your mother or to me. And now you may tell us where you got this fig.</p>
			<p><i>Francis.</i>—I got it among the grass, papa; and there are a great many more. I thought it must be good to eat, for the fowls and the pigeons, and even the pig, came to the place and ate them in large quantities.</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>—You see then, my dear, said I to my wife, that our beautiful trees are fig-trees, at least the kind which are thus named at the Antilles; for they do not in the least resemble the tree called by that name in Europe, except that they both bear a fruit having some little resemblance to each other. I now recollect that the leaves of the mango tree are of a round form, and not oval like these. I took this occasion to give the boys another lesson, on the necessity of being cautious in an unknown country, and never to venture on tasting any thing they met with, till they had seen it eaten by birds and monkeys. At the word monkeys, they all ran to visit the little orphan, whom they found seated on a root of a tree, and examining with the oddest grimaces and the most singular expression of curiosity, the half-skinned porcupine and the tiger cat, which lay near him. Francis offered him a fig, which he first turned round and round, then smelled at it, and concluded by eating it voraciously. Bravo, bravo! Mr. Monkey, exclaimed the boys, clapping their hands; so then these figs are good to eat! Thank you, Mr. Monkey; for, after your wise decision, we shall make a charming feast on them.</p>
			<p>In the mean while, my wife had been employed in making a fire, in putting on the pot, and preparing for our dinner. She had put a large piece of the porcupine into it, and the rest she had laid in salt for another time. The tiger cat was bestowed upon the dogs, who waited impatiently to receive it. While our dinner was dressing, I employed my time in making some packing-needles with the quills of the porcupine. I put the point of a large nail into the fire till it was red hot; then taking hold of it with some wet linen in my hand, by way of guard, I with great ease perforated the thick end of the quills with it. I had soon the pleasure of presenting my wife with a large packet of long, stout, needles, which were the more valuable in her estimation, as she had formed the intention of contriving some better harnessing for our animals, and had been perplexed how to set about them without some larger needles. I, however, recommended to her to be frugal in her use of the packthread, for which I should soon have so urgent a need, in constructing a ladder for ascending the tree we intended to inhabit. I had singled out the highest and thickest fig-tree; and while we were waiting for dinner, I made the boys try how high they could throw their sticks and stones in it. I also tried myself; but the very lowest branches were so far from the ground, that none of us could touch them. I perceived, therefore, that we should be under the necessity of inventing some method to reach so far, as, otherwise, it would be impossible to fasten the ends of my ladder to them. I allowed a short pause to my imagination on the subject, during which I assisted Jack and Fritz in carrying the skins of the two animals to the adjacent stream, where we confined them under water with some large stones. By this time we were called to dinner, and we all partook with pleasure of our porcupine, which had produced an excellent soup, and had no fault but being a little hard. My wife, however, could not prevail upon herself to eat of it; which occasioned Jack, who did the honours of the dish, a little mortification. My wife could not be brought to relent, but made her dinner on a slice of ham and some bread and cheese, under the shade of the trees which she had so much desired, and where she found the plainest repast delicious.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
