<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>VII: Second Journey of Discovery Performed by the Mother of the Family.</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-7" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">Second Journey of Discovery Performed by the Mother of the Family.</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>You pretend, said my wife with a little malicious smile, to be curious about my history, and for all that, you have not let me speak a single word in all this time; but the longer a torrent is pent up, and interrupted in its course, the longer it flows when once let loose. Now then, that you will have the condescension to attend, I shall give vent to a certain little movement of vanity, which is fluttering at my heart. Not, however, to intrude too long upon your patience, I will take a leap over the first day of your absence, in the course of which, nothing new took place, except my anxiety on your account, which confined me for the most part to the spot from whence you embarked, and from which I could see the vessel. But this morning, after the gratifying sight of the signal you had promised, and having set up mine in return, I looked about, before the boys were up, in hopes to find a shady place, in which I might sit down and rest myself: but not an inch of ground appeared of this description, for there is not a single tree in any direction near us, and the only bit of shade which presented itself, was behind our tent. This occasioned me to reflect a little seriously on our situation. It will be impossible, said I to myself, to remain in this place, scorched, during the whole of the day, by the burning heat of the sun, without any other shelter than a miserable tent, under which the heat is even more excessive than without. Courage then! said I, my husband and my eldest son are at this moment actively employed in the vessel for the general good; why then should not I, on my part, be active and enterprising also? why not undertake, with my youngest sons, to do something that shall add some one comfort to our existence? I will pass over with them to the other side of the river, and with my own eyes examine the country respecting which my husband and Fritz have related such wonders. I will try to find out some well shaded agreeable spot, in which we may all be settled. I now cast another look towards the vessel; but perceiving no sign of your return, I determined to share a slight dinner with the boys, and courageously to set out on a journey of discovery for a habitation which might afford us more convenience, and a better shelter from the sun.</p>
			<p>In the course of the morning, Jack had slipped away to the side of the tent where Fritz had hung his jackall, and with his knife, which he sharpened from time to time upon the rock, he cut some long slips of skin, lengthways, from the back of the animal, and afterwards set about cleaning them with great attention. Ernest discovered him employed in this uncleanly occupation; and as he is, as we all know, a little delicate, and afraid to soil his fingers, he not only refused to give Jack any assistance, but thought fit to sneer a little at the currier-like trade which he had engaged in. Jack, who, as we also know, has not the most patient temper in the world, raised his hand to give him a little cuff. Ernest made his escape, more alarmed, I believe, by Jack’s dirty hands, than by the expected blow; while I, for my part, ran to set them right, and to give a mother’s reproof to both. Jack persisted that he had a justification full and undeniable, in the great usefulness of the said dirty work; for, said he, it is intended to make some collars, which I shall afterwards arm with spikes, and the dogs will wear them for our defence. I saw in an instant that Ernest had been the aggressor, and on him fell the reproof; I represented how little a squeamish delicacy like his, suited with the difficulties of our situation, in which one and all were called upon to assist, in any employment that should promise to contribute to the general good.</p>
			<p>Jack returned to his strips of skin, the cleaning of which he completed very cleverly. When he had finished this part of his undertaking, he looked out from the chest of nails, those that were longest, and which had the largest and flattest heads: these he stuck through the whole of the bit of skin intended for the collar, at small distances. He next cut a strip of sailcloth the same breadth as the leather, and, laying it along on the heads of the nails, politely proposed to me the agreeable occupation of sewing them together, to prevent the heads of the nails from injuring the dogs. I begged leave to be excused; but observing afterwards the good-humour with which he set about trying to sew them for himself, and that with all his goodwill it was too difficult for a boy to execute, I conquered my repugnance to the wild fetid smell of the leather, and rewarded him by completing the job myself;⁠—a mother seldom refuses the sacrifice of a little personal convenience, if it can afford delight to a virtuous child.</p>
			<p>But now having yielded the first time, I found I had made myself liable to a further claim on my good-nature. The next thing was a belt for himself, which he had manufactured of the same materials, and was impatient to see completed⁠—it being intended to contain his two pistols. We shall see, said he, strutting about as he spoke, if the jackalls will dare to attack us now. But, my dear Jack, said I, you do not foresee what will happen;⁠—a piece of skin not entirely dry, is always liable to shrink when exposed to the heat. So, after all the disagreeable task you have imposed upon me, you will not be able to make use of it. My little workman, as I said this, struck his forehead, and betrayed other marks of impatience. What you say is true, said he, and I had not well considered; but I know of an effectual remedy. He then took a hammer and some nails, and stretched his strips of leather on a plank, which he then laid in the sun to dry quickly, thus preventing the possibility of their shrinking. I applauded his invention, and promised him I would not fail to give you a full account of his proceedings.</p>
			<p>I next assembled them all three round me, and informed them of my plans for an excursion, and you may believe I heard nothing like a dissenting voice. They lost not a moment in preparing for our departure; they examined their arms, their game-bags, looked out the best clasp knives, and cheerfully undertook to carry the provision-bags; while I, for my share, was loaded with a large flask of water and hatchet, for which I thought it likely we might find a use. I also took the light gun which belongs to Ernest, and gave him in return a carbine, which might be loaded with several balls at once. We took some refreshment, and then sallied forth, attended by the two dogs for an escort. Turk, who had already accompanied you in the direction I intended to take, seemed well aware that he knew the way, and proceeded at the head of the party in quality of a conductor. We arrived at the place at which you had crossed the river, and succeeded in passing over as securely as you had done, not however without considerable difficulty.</p>
			<p>As we advanced, I reflected that our safety depended in some measure on the two boys, because it was they only who knew how to use the guns. I now for the first time began to feel how fortunate it was, that you had accustomed them from infancy to face danger of every kind; in our own country I had sometimes blamed you for allowing them the use of guns, and showing them how to fire. I was averse to their conceiving a partiality to field sports, and apprehended numberless accidents that might happen to them. But at present I am convinced that every parent who adopts a hardy scheme of education acts the wisest part. Let me now resume the passing of the river.</p>
			<p>Ernest was first in reaching the other side, and met with no accident. The little Francis entreated me to carry him on my back, which appeared difficult enough, as I must have left the things with which I was loaded, on the shore, and have returned to fetch them. At length we found means to manage pretty well, thanks to Jack, who relieved me of my gun and hatchet. But for himself, finding he was scarcely able to stand under this added weight, he resolved to go straight into the water at once, rather than run the risk of slipping, by stepping on the loose wet pieces of stone, when so heavily loaded. I myself had great difficulty to keep myself steady with the dear little burden at my back, who joined his hands round my neck, and leaned with all his weight upon my shoulders. After having filled my flask with river water, we proceeded on our way; and when we had reached to the top of the ascent on the other side, which you described to us as so enchanting, I myself experienced the same effect from the delightful scenery around. I continued for some time to look and admire in silence; and for the first time since the event of our dreadful accident at sea, I felt my heart begin to open to a sense of enjoyment and of hope.</p>
			<p>In casting my eyes over the vast extent before me, I had observed a small wood of the most inviting aspect. I had so long sighed for a little shade, that I resolved without hesitation to take our course towards it: for this, however, it was necessary to go a long way through a strong kind of grass, which reached above the heads of the little boys; an obstacle which, on trial, we found too difficult to overcome. We therefore resolved to pursue a direction along the river, till it was necessary to turn upon the wood. We found traces of your footsteps, and took care to follow them till we had come to a turn on the right, which seemed to lead directly to it; but here again we were interrupted by the extraordinary height and thickness of the grass, which nothing but the most indefatigable endeavours could have enabled us to get through. Jack was now loitering a little behind, and I frequently turned round to observe what he could be doing: at last I saw him tearing off some handfulls of grass, and wiping his clothes with it; and then I perceived him shake his pocket-handkerchief, which was wet, and lay it on his shoulders to dry. I hastened back to him, to inquire what had happened.</p>
			<p>Oh, mother, said he, I believe all the water of the river we have crossed, has got into my pockets: only see, everything I had in them is wet, pistols, turfs, everything.</p>
			<p>Good heavens! interrupted I in great alarm, had you put your pistols in your pocket? They were not loaded, I hope?</p>
			<p>I am sure I do not know, mother; I only put them there while my belt was drying, that I might always have them about me.</p>
			<p>Thoughtless, yet fortunate boy! exclaimed I. Do you know what an escape you have had? If with the suddenness of your motions the pistols had gone off, they would infallibly have killed you. Take care, I entreat you, not to commit such an imprudence in future. There is nothing, I believe, to fear, mother, for this time, replied he, holding the pistols so as to let the water run out of them. And in reality I perceived, by the condition they were in, that there was little danger of their going off. While we were conversing about what had happened, our attention was interrupted by a sudden noise, and looking about, we perceived a large bird issuing from the thickest part of the grass, and mounting in the air. Each of the boys prepared to fire, but before they could be ready, the bird was out of the reach of shot. Ernest was bitterly disappointed, and instantly exchanged the gun for the carbine I had given him, crying: What a pity! If I had but had the lightest gun! if the bird had not got away so fast, I would lay any wager I should have killed him.</p>
			<p>The mischief was, no doubt, that you did not let him know beforehand that it was your pleasure he should wait till you could be quite ready, observed I, laughing.</p>
			<p>But, mother, how could I possibly suppose that the bird could fly away in less than the twinkling of an eye? Ah, if one would but come at this very moment!</p>
			<p>A good sportsman, Ernest, always holds himself in readiness, this being, as I understand, the great art of a sportsman; for you must know, that birds never send messages to give notice of their coming.</p>
			<p>I wish I could but know, said Jack, what bird it was; I never saw any the least like it.</p>
			<p>I am sure it was an eagle, said the little Francis, for I have read in my book of fables that an eagle can carry off a sheep; and this bird was terribly large.</p>
			<p>O yes, said Ernest scoffingly, as if all large birds must be eagles! Why, do you not know that there are some birds much larger even than eagles? the ostrich for example, which travellers sometimes name the Condor or the Candor. I must confess it would have afforded me the highest pleasure to have examined him minutely.</p>
			<p>If you had had time to examine him, you would have had time to kill him, said I: but, as the opportunity is gone, let us look for the place in the grass from which he mounted; we may judge at least of his size by the mark he will have left there. The boys now all scampered away to the place; when suddenly a second bird, exactly like the first, except that he was a little larger, rushed out with a great noise and mounted above their heads.</p>
			<p>The boys remained stupid with astonishment, following him with their eyes and open mouths without speaking a word, while for my own part I could not help laughing heartily. Oh! such fine sportsmen as we have here! cried I: they will never let us be in want of game, I plainly perceive. <i>Ah! if one would but come at this very moment!</i> these were your own words, Ernest, and behold one came, and you have let him escape: it is not of much use, methinks, to load your guns. Ernest, always a little disposed to vent uneasiness by crying, now began to sob; but Jack, with a curious mixture of a tragicomic bravery upon his features, darted his eager eyes upon the mountain traveller, and taking off his hat made a profound bow, roaring out, as if for the bird to hear: Have the goodness, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Traveller, to indulge me once more with a little visit, only for a single minute: you cannot imagine what good sort of people we are: I entreat that we may have the pleasure of seeing you once again.⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>We now minutely examined the place from which the birds had mounted, and found a kind of large nest formed of dried plants, and the workmanship of which was clumsy enough; the nest was empty, with the exception of some broken shells of eggs. I inferred from this, that their young had lately been hatched; and observing at this moment a rustling motion among some plants of shorter growth, at some distance from the spot on which we stood, I concluded that the young covey were scampering away in that direction; but as the motion soon ceased, we had no longer a guide to conduct us to their retreat. We had now then a moment for remark. Ernest, assuming his professor tone, began: You see clearly, I suppose, Francis, that these large birds which we have met with, cannot possibly be eagles, for that species of birds was never known to make their nests in the grass; neither are their young ones capable of taking care of themselves so soon after being hatched; the only birds that can walk without help as soon as they come out of the shell, are partridges and quails.</p>
			<p>Give me leave, interrupted I, to add to your list, all birds of the gallinaceous kind, such as the turkey, the peacock, and the Guinea fowl; and no doubt many other wild fowls have the same feature in their description.</p>
			<p>But, mother, replied he, birds of the gallinaceous kind have not white feathers on the belly, and slate-coloured wings, like those which have just escaped us. I, for my part, am of opinion, that they were the great bustard; the second bird having a small mustachio on the side of the beak, which answers to the description I have seen of him in my engravings.</p>
			<p>What you have seen, Ernest, is always in engravings, said Jack. For my part, I should like for once to see a real original that you had had the skill to vanquish. If Fritz had been with us, I can tell you, the said birds would now be lying dead before us, and then you would have an opportunity of comparing them with your engravings.</p>
			<p>I, for my part, observed I, most heartily rejoice that things have happened as they did, and that those poor little birds which stand so much in need of their parents’ care, have not been deprived of them. What would be your own sensation, if a cruel savage of this country should attack your father or mother, with an intention to destroy them?</p>
			<p>I can more easily tell you, mother, what I would do, than what I should feel, said Jack, straightening his arm as he held the pistol: young as I am, I think I can answer, that if such a bird as that should come in my way, he should meet with a reception that would not much incline him to repeat his visit.</p>
			<p>I thank you, my good fellow: but this would not be so easy as you imagine; for though you have arrived at the prodigious age of your tenth year, there would be some difficulty in conquering one who would have twice your own strength. But now for a little grave advice:⁠—Take care, my excellent children, to guard against the growth of the insensible and cruel disposition, which a passion for field-sports is so apt to inspire; it is for this reason that I have never wished my family to be fond of them. It has always appeared to me that no animals ought to be destroyed, but those who do injury to man, or are indispensably necessary for his support.</p>
			<p>Discoursing thus, we reached the little wood; and here our son Ernest had an opportunity of recognising many of the originals of the engravings in his books of natural history, and of displaying his knowledge, or his ignorance, to his heart’s content. A prodigious quantity of unknown birds were skipping and warbling on the branches of the trees, without betraying the least alarm at our vicinity. In spite of the lesson in morality which I had so lately been pronouncing, the desire of firing upon them again possessed their hearts; but this I absolutely forbade, and with the less scruple, as the trees were of so enormous a height as to be out of gunshot reach.⁠—No, my dear husband, you cannot possibly form an idea of the trees we now beheld! You must somehow have missed this wood; or so extraordinary a sight could not have escaped your observation; in my whole life I have never seen a single tree of so immense a size. What appeared to us at a distance to be a wood, was only a group of about fourteen of them, the trunks of which looked as if they were supported in their upright position, by so many arches on each side, the arches being formed by portions of the roots of the tree, of great thickness and extent. Meanwhile the tree itself is further supported by a perpendicular root, placed in the midst of the others, and of a smaller compass, while the projecting roots extend themselves on every side of the tree, and double the circumference it would have.</p>
			<p>Jack climbed with considerable trouble upon one of these arch-formed roots, and with a packthread in his hand measured the actual circumference of the tree itself. He found that it measured more than fifteen braches (the brache is equal to twenty-two inches and a half). I made thirty-two steps in going round one of those giant trees at the roots; and its height from the ground to the place where the branches begin to shoot, may be about thirty-six braches. The twigs of this tree are strong and thick; its leaves moderately large in size, and bearing some resemblance to the hazel tree of Europe; but I was unable to discover that it bore any fruit. The soil immediately round the tree and under its branches, produced in great abundance a short thick kind of plant, unmixed with any of the thistle kind, and of a perfectly smooth surface. Thus every circumstance seemed to concur in inviting us to use this spot as a place of repose; and my predilection for it grew so strong that I resolved to go no further, but to enjoy its delicious coolness till it should be time to return. I sat down in this verdant elysium with my three sons around me. We took out our provision-bags; a charming stream, formed to increase the coolness and beauty of the scene, flowed at our feet, and supplied us with a fresh and salutary beverage. Our dogs were not long in reaching us; they had remained behind, sauntering about the skirts of the wood. To my great surprise, they did not ask for anything to eat, but lay down quietly, and were soon asleep at our feet. For my own part, I felt that I could never tire of beholding and admiring this enchanting spot; it occurred to me, that if we could but contrive a kind of tent that could be fixed in one of the trees, we might safely come and make our abode here. I had found nothing in any other direction that suited us so well in every respect; and I resolved to look no further. When we had shared our dinner among us, and well rested from our fatigue, we set out on our return, again keeping close to the river, half expecting to see along the shore, some of the pieces or other vestiges of the vessel, which the waves might have washed on shore there.</p>
			<p>But before we left our enchanting retreat, Jack entreated me to stay a little longer, and finish sewing the linen strips to his leather belt. The little coxcomb had so great an ambition to strut about and exhibit himself in his belt, that he had taken the trouble to carry the piece of wood on which he had nailed his skin to dry, along with him, through the whole of our expedition. Finding that the skin was really dry, I granted his request, preferring, since it appeared that work I must, to do it now when I had the advantage of being in the shade, than after I should be returned to the scorching of the sun outside our tent. When I had finished my task, he eagerly fastened the belt round him, and placed his pistols in it; he set himself before us in a marching step, with the knuckles of his hand turned back upon his hip, leaving to Ernest the care of putting on the dogs’ collars; which he insisted should be done, for it would give them, he said, a martial air. The little hero was all impatience for you and Fritz to see him in his new accoutrement; so that I had enough to do to walk quick enough to keep sight of him; for, in a country where no track of the foot of man is to be found, we might easily lose each other. I became more tranquil respecting him when we had got once more all together on the seashore; for, as I expected, we found there pieces of timber, poles, large and small chests, and other articles which I knew had come from the vessel. None of us however were strong enough to bring them away; we therefore contented ourselves with dragging all we could reach to the dry sands, beyond the reach of the waves at the highest state of the tide. Our dogs, for their part, were fully employed in fishing for crabs, which they drew with their paws to the shore, as the waves washed them up, and on which they made an excellent repast. I now understood that it was this sort of prey which had appeased their hunger before they joined us at dinner. Heaven be praised, cried I, that our animals have found means to procure sustenance at so cheap a rate! for I really began to think that, with their enormous appetites, they might some day have taken it into their heads to eat their masters.</p>
			<p>Eat us! exclaimed my brave son Jack, you surely forget; am I not here to defend you with my pistols?</p>
			<p>Silly young pretender! they would swallow you if they had a mind, as easily as you would swallow a pill; but in reality they are kind excellent creatures, who love us, and will never do us any harm. By swallowing us, I meant that they would so considerably diminish our provisions, that in this respect they would inflict upon us a serious misfortune.</p>
			<p>We now suddenly cast our eyes on Ponto, whom we perceived employed in turning over a round substance he had found in the sands, some pieces of which he swallowed from time to time. Ernest also perceived what he was about, and did us the favour, with his usual composure, to pronounce just these words:⁠—They are turtles’ eggs!</p>
			<p>Run, my children, cried I, and get as many of them as you can; they are excellent, and I shall have the greatest pleasure in being able to regale our dear travellers on their return, with so new and delicious a dish. We found it a little difficult to make Ponto come away from the eggs, to which he had taken a great fancy. At length, however, we succeeded in collecting near two dozen of them, which we secured in our provision-bags. When we had concluded this affair, we by accident cast our eyes upon the boundless ocean, and to our great astonishment we perceived a sail, which seemed to be joyfully approaching towards the land. I knew not what to think; but Ernest, who always thinks he knows everything, or can guess at everything, exclaimed that it was you and Fritz; but little Francis was terribly afraid that it must be the savages come to eat us up, like those described in Robinson Crusoe’s Island. We soon, however, had the happiness of being convinced that Ernest was right, and that it was indeed our well-beloved! We ran eagerly towards the river, which Jack and Ernest recrossed as before, by leaping from one great stone to another; while I also resumed my burden of little Francis at my back, and in this manner soon arrived at the place of your landing, when we had nothing further to do but to throw ourselves into your arms! This, my dear husband, is a faithful and circumstantial narration of our journey of discovery; and now, if you wish me a great deal of happiness, you will not refuse to conduct me and your sons, with our whole train of animals, to the spot I have described, where we cannot fail to find a more agreeable asylum than here, under these scorching rocks.</p>
			<p>And these giant trees are then the asylum you have chosen for our future abode! And you would have a tent set up in one of them, at a distance of more than sixty-six feet from the ground, where we should be perched like parrots! And pray by what means are we to ascend this tree? for at present I have no clear view of this important part of the subject.</p>
			<p>Alas! my dear husband, I see the objections against my plan as plainly as you can do; but after all, we cannot but be considerable gainers by the change: for my part, I dared not venture further without having my dear protector at my side. Who knows, if we were to set out together upon another expedition, if we should not find a still more convenient spot, in which we could take up our abode?</p>
			<p>I perceived a tear stealing into my wife’s eyes, on finding that she could not prevail upon me to think as favourably as she wished of her discovery, and that I treated the subject of her giant trees with so little respect:</p>
			<p>I therefore endeavoured by every means to sooth and relieve her somewhat wounded sensibility. I assured her how much I admired her courage, and that I considered her adventure as a proof that women possess that fine quality in as great perfection in their hearts, as some men exhibit instances of it in their conduct. Do not then distress yourself, my love, but tell me if I shall make you a balloon of sailcloth, to enable you to arrive at your country seat amongst the branches.</p>
			<p>Yes, yes, said she, laugh as much as you like, if it amuses you; but I assure you my plan is not so silly as you imagine; one advantage, at least, it is certain we should derive⁠—the being out of reach of jackalls and other wild beasts. Do you recollect the large lime-tree in the public walk of the town we lived in, and the pretty little room which had been built among its branches, and the flight of stairs which led to it? What should hinder us from effecting such a contrivance in one of my giant trees, which afford even superior facilities in the enormous size and strength of their branches, and the peculiar manner of their growth?</p>
			<p>Well, well, we shall see about it. In the meanwhile, my boys, let us extract a little lesson in arithmetic, from the subject of these marvellous trees; for this, at least, will be deriving a real benefit from them. Tell me, learned <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ernest, how many feet there are in thirty-six braches? for that, your mother assures us, is the height of the trees.</p>
			<p><i>Ernest.</i>⁠—To answer this question, I must know first how many feet or inches the brache contains.</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>⁠—I thought you knew long ago as much as this; but, as usual in young heads, what goes in at one ear goes out at the other. I must then remind you, as you have forgot, that the brache, or half-ell, contains one foot ten inches, or twenty-two inches. Now then make your calculation.</p>
			<p><i>Ernest.</i>⁠—I do not find it so easy as I thought. You must help me, Fritz, you are older than I am.</p>
			<p><i>Fritz.</i>⁠—With all my heart. First we take thirty-six braches; then multiply 36 by 22, the number of inches each brach contains, and you have 792; divide this by 12, the number of inches in a foot, and it will give us 66 for the number of feet. Is that right, father?</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>⁠—Yes, quite right. So, my dear wife, you will have every evening to climb sixty-six feet to get to bed, which, as we have no ladder, is not the easiest thing imaginable. Now then let us see how many feet the tree is in circumference, taking it round the roots. Your mother found that she walked round it in thirty-two steps. Now then, Ernest, how many feet do you think these thirty-two steps would make?</p>
			<p><i>Ernest.</i>⁠—You always ask me the things that I know nothing at all about: you should tell me, at least, how many feet there are in a step.</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>⁠—Well, say two feet and a half to each step.</p>
			<p><i>Ernest.</i>⁠—Twice 32 makes 64; the half of 32 is 16; which added to 64 makes 80 feet.</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>⁠—Very well. Tell me now, if you recollect the proper term in geometry for the circumference of a circle, or say of a tree, since we are talking of trees.</p>
			<p><i>Ernest.</i>⁠—Oh, you may be sure that I could not forget that it is called the periphery.</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>⁠—Right. And what is the term for any line which may be drawn from one point of the periphery to another, passing through the centre? Now, Jack, you may show us what a great geometrician you intend to be.</p>
			<p><i>Jack.</i>⁠—I believe it is called the diameter.</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>⁠—So far right. Next, can you tell me what is the diameter of a periphery of eighty feet, and what distance there is between the extremities of the roots of the giant tree and its trunk?</p>
			<p>The boys all began to reckon, and soon one said one number, one said another⁠—at random; but Fritz called out louder than the rest, that the distance was twenty-six feet.</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>⁠—You are pretty near. Tell me, did you make a calculation, or was it a mere guess?</p>
			<p><i>Fritz.</i>⁠—No, father, not a guess; but I will tell you. In the town in which we lived, I have often taken notice that the hatter, when he was about to bind the edge of a hat, always measured three times the length of the diameter, and a trifle over, for the quantity of ribbon he should use: thus I had no difficulty in finding that the third of eighty was about twenty-six; and adding a couple of feet for the over measure, we may call it twenty-eight.</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>⁠—I am glad to see you did not lose such an opportunity for calculation; but a great boy like you, who have advanced in your studies, ought not to be under obligations to the hatter for the answer. But now let us go back to the measure of our trees, which are really of a most extraordinary size. Height from the ground to the branches, sixty-six feet; thickness, eight feet in diameter, and twenty-eight feet distance from the extremities of the roots to the trunk. They really, with propriety, may be called giant trees.</p>
			<p>Having finished our conversation, we performed our devotions, and retired to rest, grateful and well satisfied to find ourselves once more together, and in health. We soon closed our eyes, and enjoyed tranquil slumbers till break of day.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
