<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XIX: Another Trip to the Wreck.</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter-2-3" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIX</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">Another Trip to the Wreck.</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p><span class="smcap">I rose</span> before day to go to the seaside and inspect our two vessels. My family did not hear me depart, and I was unwilling to disturb their balmy sleep, that sweet restorative of strength, so requisite for children. I therefore gently descended the ladder. Above, the scene was all repose; below, I found everything in life and motion. The dogs jumped about me for joy, perceiving I was going out; the cock and the hens flapped their wings and chuckled, and our goats shook their long beards as they browsed; but the ass, the only creature amongst them I was likely to want at that time, still lay stretched at full length on the grass, and discovered no inclination for the morning jaunt I designed for him. Taking less of the creature’s feelings into the account than my own occasion for his services, I quickly roused and harnessed him singly for the sledge, not wishing to yoke the cow to it before she had been milked. It was unnecessary to call the dogs after me. As I walked towards the shore, animated at different moments by hope and fear, with pleasure I saw there, that, with the help of my lead and iron bars used as anchors, the boat and raft had resisted the tide, though it had partially heaved them up. I got quickly on the raft, where I took a small loading, and returned to Falcon’s Stream in time for breakfast. Judge of my surprise when arrived, that I neither saw nor heard a single creature of its inhabitants, though the sun had climbed high above the horizon.⁠—Thinking it time for our fellow-labourers to be stirring, I gave a shout as loud as a war-whoop. My wife awoke first, and wondered to see the day so far advanced. Really, my dear, said she, I think it must be the magic charm of the good mattress you brought home yesterday that has lulled me into such a long sound sleep, and that appears to be still exerting its influence upon our boys. In fact, though they rubbed their eyes, they could scarcely keep them open: they yawned, stretched, turned round, and turned back again. Come come, up, my lads, exclaimed I, once again; the more we venture to parley with sloth, the longer she holds us in her chains; brave youths like you, ought to awake at the first call, and leap quick and gaily out of bed. Fritz, ashamed to have slept so long, was dressed first; Jack soon after him, and Francis next; the ever-slothful Ernest was the last.</p>
			<p>Is it possible, dear boy, said I to him, that at your age you allow even little Francis to get the start of you?</p>
			<p>Oh! father, answered he, it is so delightful to lose oneself again after having been awakened! one feels sleep come on afresh so gently, ideas vanish so agreeably! I should be glad to be awakened thus every morning, that I might have the pleasure of falling into a new slumber.</p>
			<p>I answer, Ernest, that this is a refinement in slothfulness I never heard of till now! It is my duty to tell you, and that gravely, if you acquire this habit, you will become an effeminate useless character. A man, though not like us, in a desert, is bound to provide for his existence, and avoid being a burden to society; he should do what is right with courage and promptness, without consulting convenience or pleasure. He who indulges himself in all that flatters his senses, will end by falling a victim to them. Nature produces, too, certain poisons, which are grateful to the palate; yet the persons who unguardedly taste them, fail not to suffer the death they conceal.</p>
			<p>After this short admonition, we all came down; and prayers and breakfast being over, we returned to the seaside to complete the unloading of the raft, that it might be ready for sea on the ebbing of the tide. I was not long, with the additional assistance I had, in taking two cargoes to Falcon’s Stream. At our last trip the tide was nearly up to our craft. I immediately sent back my wife and three children, and remained with Fritz waiting till we were quite afloat; when observing Jack hovering round us and dilatory in following his mother, I perceived his wish and assented to his embarking with us. Shortly after, the tide was high enough for us to row off. Instead of steering for Safety Bay to moor our vessels there securely, I was tempted by the fineness of the weather to go out again to the wreck, which it was with considerable difficulty we got up to, though aided by a very fresh sea breeze. On our getting alongside, it was too late to undertake much, and I was unwilling to cause my dear partner uneasiness by passing another night on-board; I therefore determined to bring away only what could be obtained with ease and speed: in this resolution we searched hastily through the ship for any trifling articles that might be readily removed. Jack was up and down, everywhere, at a loss what to select; and when I saw him again, he drew a wheelbarrow after him, shouting and rejoicing at having found such a vehicle for the convenient carriage of our potatoes. But Fritz next disclosed still better news, which was that he had discovered behind the bulkhead amidship, a pinnace (<i><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr></i> a small craft, the forepart of which is square) taken to pieces, with all its appurtenances, and even two small guns for its defence. This intelligence so delighted me, that I quitted everything else to run to the bulkhead, when I was convinced of the truth of the lad’s assertion: but I instantly perceived, that to put it together and launch it into the sea, would be an Herculean task, which I relinquished for the present. I then collected some house utensils and whatever else I thought most useful; such as a large copper boiler, some plates of iron, tobacco graters, two grinding-stones, a small barrel of gunpowder, and another full of flints, which I much valued. Jack’s barrow was not forgotten; two more were afterwards found and added, with straps belonging to them. All these articles were hurried into the boat, without our stopping to eat, or in any manner refresh ourselves, and we re-embarked with speed, to avoid meeting the land wind that invariably rises in the evening. As we were safely and happily drawing near to shore, we were struck with the appearance of an assemblage of small figures ranged in a long line on the strand, and that seemed to be viewing us attentively: they were dressed in black, and all uniform, with white waistcoats and full cravats: the arms of these beings hung down carelessly; now and then, however, they seemed to extend them tenderly, as if they wished to embrace or offer us a token of friendship.</p>
			<p>I really think, said I to the boys, who were steadfastly gazing at so novel a spectacle, that we are in the country of the pygmies, and that, having discovered us, they wish to form a friendly alliance.</p>
			<p><i>Jack.</i> Oh, no! father, they are certainly Lilliputians, though somewhat bigger than those of whom I read the description in <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Gulliver’s Travels</i>.</p>
			<p>You, then, child, said I, consider those travels as true; that there is an island of Lilliput, and inhabited by dwarfs?</p>
			<p><i>Jack.</i> Gulliver says so. He met also with men of an immense stature, besides an island inhabited by horses.⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>And yet I must tell you that the only reality in all his discoveries is the rich imagination of the author, whose taste and feeling led him to resort to allegory for the purpose of revealing grand truths. Do you know, Jack, what an allegory is?</p>
			<p>It somewhat resembles a parable, I presume.</p>
			<p>Right, one is very similar to the other.</p>
			<p><i>Jack.</i> And the pygmies you mentioned, are any to be found?</p>
			<p>No more than there are Lilliputians; they exist only in poetical fiction, or in the erroneous account of some ancient navigator, in which a group of monkeys has been fallaciously described as diminutive men.</p>
			<p><i>Fritz.</i> Such probably are the mannikins that we see now stretching out their arms towards us. Ah, now I begin to perceive that they have beaks, and that their arms are short drooping wings;⁠—what strange birds!</p>
			<p>You are right, son, they are penguins or ruffs.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-3" id="noteref-3" epub:type="noteref">3</a> They are of the <i>stupid</i> species; Ernest killed one soon after our arrival. They are excellent swimmers, but cannot fly; and so confused are they when on land, that they run in the silliest way into danger; catching such birds as these, is a fit sport for none but the indolent.</p>
			<p>While we were talking I steered gently towards shore, to enjoy the uncommon sight the longer; but the very moment we got into shallow water, my giddy boy Jack leaped out of his cask up to his waist into it, and was quickly on land battering with his stick among the penguins before they were aware of his approach, so that half a dozen of them were immediately laid flat; they were not dead, but only stunned: the remainder, seeing they were so roughly accosted, plunged into the sea, dived, and disappeared.</p>
			<p>Fritz murmured audibly at his brother for having frightened them away before he could fire. I could not help laughing at this perpetual shooter of guns, who was so disposed to waste his powder on animals which were to be taken with the hand without resistance: I also taunted Jack a little for having jumped into the water at the risk of being drowned. While I was making these observations, the birds, that had been merely stunned, gradually recovered, rose upon their legs and began a tottering sort of march with a gravity which irresistibly excited our laughter. I did not allow Jack’s game to escape; I took hold of them, tied their legs together with reeds, without hurting them, and laid them on the beach while we were landing our treasures. But as the sun declined, and we despaired of finishing before night set in, each of us filled a barrow in order to take home something. I requested that the tobacco-graters and iron plates might be in the first load; to these we added the penguins living and dead, and then set out. As we drew near Falcon’s Stream I heard with pleasure the watchful dogs proclaim our approach with loud barking: they no sooner saw us than they ran up with lively demonstrations of joy, and in the midst of their rough greetings completely overset poor Jack, who was wheeling along his barrow with difficulty and some ill-humour, and to this he gave vent by two or three lusty cuffs of his fist, which were divided between his friends Turk and Ponto, who so little thought of resenting them, that they sprang upon him as often as he took his barrow, and thus renewed the contest to the no small amusement of his brothers, who ran up to disengage him. My wife was highly pleased with the wheelbarrows and for the most part with their contents, but she had no partiality for the tobacco-graters.⁠—In the name of Heaven, said she, what is the use of these graters? Are our four sons to become snuff-takers? Luckily for my fears, said she, the article is not to be obtained in our island.</p>
			<p>No, dear wife, I replied; and pray do not be uneasy about them; these graters are not for the gratification of our noses; I am too happy in having myself abandoned the bad and filthy habit of snuff-taking, to permit my sons to use it. Come, children, said I, pointing to the penguins, look after the newcomers to the poultry-yard. I then directed them to fasten the birds one by one to a goose or a duck, as a means of taming and inuring them to the society of their companions. This essay, however, was tedious and inconvenient to our feathered animals, who were but slowly reconciled to their singular companions. My wife now showed me a good store of potatoes which she had got in during our absence, and a quantity of the roots I had taken for manioc, and in which I was not mistaken: I much applauded her diligence and foresight, and gave Ernest and little Francis their share of approbation.</p>
			<p>Papa, we have worked very hard indeed, said the latter; what will you say when we have a fine crop of maize, melons, dates, and gourds? Mamma has planted all these in the potato holes.</p>
			<p>I must tell you, master Francis, exclaimed his mother, you are a little thoughtless babbler. Why did you tell my secret? you have spoiled all the pleasure I promised myself in surprising your father with my new plantation.</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i> I am sorry for this, my dear; but be assured I am not the less gratified for hearing of your kindness in this unexpected manner. But tell me, I beseech you, where did you procure all these seeds and grains, and how came you to think of so extraordinary a plan?</p>
			<p><i>Mother.</i> I took the grain and seeds from the bottom of my enchanted bag, and your thirst after fresh booty and your endless trips to the wreck are the sources of the resolution I formed to increase the number of your comforts at home, and thus render them the less necessary. I determined then during the fine season to fit up a kitchen-garden, and to sow as much of it with seed as I was able to dig and put in order; at the same time taking particular care to leave all the smallest-sized potatoes in the ground, that they might produce us a full and abundant crop.</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i> This was well thought, my love; but we must not despise the trips to the vessel neither; this very day we unexpectedly discovered in her a new and handsome little pinnace, which at some time or other may be of the greatest service to us.</p>
			<p><i>Mother.</i> I cannot say that this discovery gives me very much pleasure; I have no desire to trust myself again on the sea; but should it at any time be absolutely necessary, I must confess I should prefer a well made solid vessel to our miserable raft composed of tubs.</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i> Well, this you shall possess, if you will consent to my returning once more to the wreck; in the meanwhile, let us have some supper, and then we will retire to rest; and if my little workmen should be industriously inclined tomorrow, I shall reward them with what to children is always a source of pleasure⁠—the novelty of a new trade to be learnt. This did not fail to excite the curiosity of all; but I kept my word, and made them wait till the following day for the explanation I had to give.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
