<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter-2-7" epub:type="chapter">
			<header>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIII</h3>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Excursion into unknown countries.</p>
			</header>
			<p>It is scarcely necessary to relate, that my first thought the next morning, was to fetch the sledge from the wood. I had a double motive for leaving it there, which I had refrained from explaining to my wife, to avoid giving her uneasiness. I had formed a wish to penetrate a little further into the soil, and ascertain whether anything useful would present itself beyond the wall of rocks. I was, besides, desirous to be better acquainted with the extent, the form, and general productions of our island: I wished Fritz only, who was stronger and more courageous than his brothers, to accompany me; and accordingly left the three others, and Ponto, to protect my wife. We allowed Turk to be our travelling companion, who did not fail to testify his joy by jumping about, and barking loud. We set out very early in the morning, and drove the ass before us for the purpose of drawing home the sledge.</p>
			<p>On reaching the wood of evergreen oaks, we found the sow feeding voluptuously upon the acorns under the trees. We wished her a good appetite, and begged her to admit us to the honour of partaking her breakfast; and accordingly Fritz filled the pockets of his waistcoat with some of them. We perceived with pleasure that the lecture of the preceding day had rendered the animal more tractable: she did not now seek to avoid us; and we might even have induced her to return home, if we had had time to take the pains. As we were quietly picking up some of the acorns, we observed some birds, which occupied the wood in every direction, advancing towards us. Some of them were clothed with a plumage of exquisite beauty; and for this once, I could not refuse Fritz the pleasure of firing upon them, that we might in consequence obtain a nearer view, and inform ourselves respecting their species. He brought down three. I recognised one to be the great blue Virginia jay, and the other two were parrots. One of the two was a superb red parrot; the other was green and yellow.</p>
			<p>While Fritz was reloading his gun, we heard a singular sort of noise which came from a distance: at one moment it resembled a muffled drum, at another, the noise made in sharpening a saw. My first idea was of music played by savages, and we retreated quickly to hide ourselves among the bushes to listen. By degrees we advanced towards the place from whence the sound appeared to come; but perceiving nothing to alarm us, we separated some of the branches with our hands, and then discovered a handsome bird about the size of the English cock; and, like it too, adorned with elegantly-formed smooth feathers round the neck, and a comb upon his head. The animal stood erect on a decayed trunk of a tree, which was lying on the ground, and at this moment exhibited some singular gestures. His tail was spread in the form of a fan, similar to that of the turkey-cock, but shorter; the feathers round his neck and head were erect and bristling. He sometimes agitated them with so quick a motion, as to make them appear like a vapour which suddenly enclosed him; sometimes he whirled himself round and round on the trunk of the tree; at others he moved his head and eyes in such a manner as to express a state of distraction, making at the same time, the singular kind of noise with his voice, which had alarmed us, and which was preceded and followed by a sort of explosion. This last was caused by a motion of his wing striking in a quick measure on the trunk, which was hollow and dry, and made the noise resemble a muffled drum. All around him, there was assembled a great number of birds of the same species, but much smaller, and of a less beautiful form. One and all fixed their eyes upon him, and seemed delighted with the pantomime. I contemplated this extraordinary spectacle, of which I had formerly read an account, with astonishment. The number of the spectators of the feathered actor, increased every moment; and the performance increased in spirit also, in proportion, presenting the idea of a perfect intoxication or delirium of the creature. At this moment, Fritz, who stood a little behind me, put an end to the scene by firing off his gun. The actor fell from the stage, and stretching himself on the sand, breathed his last, and the spectators betook themselves suddenly to flight. I must confess, the interest I took in the scene was of so lively a nature, that I could not refrain from reproaching Fritz in an angry tone. Why, said I, must we be always applying the means of death and annihilation to the creatures that fall in our way? Is not nature a thousand times more exhilarating in her animated movements, which express life and enjoyment, than in the selfish scheme of destruction you seem so fond of? Some allowance should no doubt be made for the curiosity of youth, for necessities caused by our situation, and even for the taste you have acquired for sporting; I therefore, as you well know, do not object to your killing now and then a little game, or some singular or dangerous kind of animal; but moderation is on all occasions useful, and the spectacle of this bird, employed in such earnest endeavours to draw his females around him, was at least as amusing, as to see him stretched there at length, and lifeless, who but two minutes ago exhibited such rapid and lively motions! His pretty hens too all dispersed in terror, and deprived of the possibility of ever more admiring him or being his companions.</p>
			<p>Fritz looked down, ashamed and sorry. I observed to him that the thing being done, there was now no remedy; that the tetrix<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-7" id="noteref-7" epub:type="noteref">7</a> or heath-cock was much esteemed as game; and that as the mischief had occurred, he had better take it from the ground and carry it to his mother.</p>
			<p>He did as I desired; and in spite of my lecture I saw that he was rejoiced to have acquired such a prize. Is it not a beautiful creature, father? said he: but I am most curious to be informed what all his action was intended to represent.</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>⁠—I imagine his gestures and his cries were intended to assemble his females, of which he has a large number, similar to the common cock of Europe. I cannot help thinking, Fritz, how cruel it was thus to interrupt the poor creature’s innocent amusements.</p>
			<p><i>Fritz.</i>⁠—I am now extremely sorry for it, father; particularly when I recollect that we might have caught him alive, and that it is so desirable to have possessed this kind of fowl at Falcon’s Stream.</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>⁠—This is precisely what I was going to observe; I am not sure that it is now too late to effect such a plan;⁠—when we see either of the hens disposed to brood, we will bring the monkey here to search about for the eggs of these animals; if we should be so lucky as to find a nest, which I think probable, we will take away the eggs, and put them under the brooding hen; by these means we shall procure some of this handsome race of fowls.</p>
			<p>We now laid the dead cock upon the ass’s back, and proceeded on our journey. We soon arrived at the guava trees, and a little after at the spot where we had left the sledge in the wood of gourds, when we found our treasures in the best possible condition: but as the morning was not far advanced, we entered upon our intended project of penetrating beyond the wall of rocks.</p>
			<p>We pursued our way in a straight line at the foot of these massy and solid productions of nature, every moment expecting to reach their extremity, or to find some turn, or breach, or passage through them, that should conduct us into the interior of the island, if, as I presumed, it was not terminated by these rocks. We walked on, continually looking about, that nothing might escape us worthy of notice, or to be enabled to anticipate and avoid such dangers as should threaten. Turk with his usual bravery took the lead, the ass followed with lazy steps shaking his long ears, and Fritz and I brought up the rear. We met from time to time with some small streams which afforded a most agreeable refreshment; we passed a wood of guava trees and fields of potatoes and manioc, the stalks of which perplexed our way; but we were recompensed for this inconvenience by the fine views which everywhere presented themselves, and which the low stature of the plants enabled us to see in perfection. To the right, on the high grounds, we saw hares and agoutis in considerable numbers, amusing themselves on the grass in the morning sun. Fritz mistook them for marmots, but not one of them made the whistling kind of sound which is customary with these animals when they see a strange object. The idea of my son seemed therefore to be unfounded: again he wished to be convinced by firing his gun; but fortunately, the rock on which they were stationed, was at too great a distance for it to take effect.</p>
			<p>We next entered a pretty little grove, the trees of which were unknown to us; their branches were loaded with large quantities of berries of an extraordinary quality, being entirely covered with a wax which stuck to our fingers as we attempted to gather them.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-8" id="noteref-8" epub:type="noteref">8</a> I knew of a sort of bush producing wax that grows in America, and named by botanists <i epub:type="z3998:taxonomy">Myrica cerifera</i>; I had no doubt that this was the plant, and the discovery gave me great pleasure. Let us stop here, said I to Fritz, for we cannot do better than collect a great quantity of these berries as a useful present to your mother.</p>
			<p>A short time after, another kind of object presented itself with equal claims to our attention; it was the singular modes of behaviour of a kind of bird scarcely larger than a chaffinch, and clothed in feathers of a common brown colour. These birds appeared to exist as a republic, there being among them one common nest, inhabited at pleasure by all their tribes. We saw one of these nests in a tree in a somewhat retired situation; it was formed with considerable skill of platted straws and bulrushes intermixed; it appeared to us to enclose great numbers of inhabitants, and was constructed in an irregular sort of form round the trunk of the tree where the branches sprout: it appeared to us to have a kind of roof formed of roots and bulrushes, but more carefully knit together than the rest of the structure. In the sides, which were unequally formed, we observed a quantity of small apertures seemingly intended as doors and windows to each particular cell of this general receptacle; from a few of these apertures, issued some small branches, which served the birds as points of rest for entering and returning: the external appearance of the whole, excited the image of an immensely large, open, sponge. The birds which inhabited it were very numerous; they passed in and out continually, and I estimated that it might contain at least a million. The males were somewhat larger than the females, and there was a trifling difference in their plumage: the number of the males was very small in proportion to the females; I do not know whether this had been the cause of their thus assembling together.</p>
			<p>While we were attentively examining this interesting little colony, we perceived a very small kind of parrot, not much larger than the birds themselves, hovering about the nest.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-9" id="noteref-9" epub:type="noteref">9</a> Their gilded green wings and the variety of their colours produced a beautiful effect; they seemed to be perpetually disputing with the colonists, and not unfrequently endeavoured to prevent their entrance into the building; they attacked them fiercely, and even endeavoured to peck at us if we but advanced our hand to the structure. Fritz, who was well trained in the art of climbing trees, was earnestly desirous to take a nearer view of such extraordinary beings, and to secure, if possible, a few individuals. He threw his whole equipage to the ground, and climbed till he reached the nest; he then tried to introduce his hand into one of the apertures, and to seize whatever living creature it should touch, in that particular cell; what he most desired, was to find a female brooding, and to carry both her and the eggs away. Several of the cells were empty, but by perseverance he found one in the situation he wished. But he did not pursue his plan without meeting with the full punishment of his curiosity and ungenerous behaviour. He received so violent a stroke from the beak of an invisible bird, that his only care was now to withdraw his hand, which he shook in the air to ease the pain, uttering all the time the most dismal lamentations. But though punished, he was not cured of his fault: no sooner had the pain subsided, than he ventured a second time to pass his hand into the nest, and succeeded in seizing his prey, which he laid hold of by the middle of the body; and in spite of the bird’s resistance, its cries and wailings, he drew it through the aperture and squeezed it into the pocket of his waistcoat; and buttoning it securely, he slided down the tree and reached the ground in safety. The signals of distress sent forth by the prisoner collected a multitude of birds from their cells, who all surrounded him, uttering the most hideous cries, and flying at him with their beaks, till he had made good his retreat. The birds pursued him till he was quite close to my side, when by making a loud noise and waving my pocket-handkerchief, I succeeded in driving them away. He now released the prisoner, and we discovered him to be a beautiful little green parrot, which Fritz entreated he might be allowed to preserve, and make a present of to his brothers, who would make a cage to keep him in, and would then tame him and teach him to speak. I did not oppose his request; but thinking we had spent too much time upon this singular phenomenon of the bird colony, I bade him prepare quickly for returning home. The birds were naturally the subject of our conversation on the road. It was the first time I had ever witnessed such a spectacle as a swarm of birds living together in a state of society in one nest; and I was surprised at it. From the circumstance of so young a bird being nestled within the structure, it appeared probable that the true right of property was in this species, and that the brown-coloured birds we at first observed, were intruders, endeavouring to deprive them of it. Thus we find, said I to Fritz, the existence of social dispositions in almost every class of the animal kingdom, which leads to the combining together for a common cause or benefit. I have not hitherto observed these dispositions among amphibious animals, but it is not unlikely that instances will at some time or other present themselves. A multitude of causes may induce animals to form a body or society, instead of living singly; among them may be supposed the deficiency of females or of males; the charge of the young; providing them with food; or as a means for their safety and protection. Who shall dare to fix limits to the instinct, or to the faculties of the animal creation?</p>
			<p><i>Fritz.</i>⁠—I do not, however, recollect any kind of animals who live thus together in society, except the bees.</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>⁠—What say you then, my boy, to wasps, drones, and different kinds of ants?</p>
			<p><i>Fritz.</i>⁠—I did not indeed recollect the ants, though I have so often amused myself with looking at them: nothing can be more interesting than the ingenious little houses they construct; observing them attentively, we perceive their industry, their economy, their care of their young;⁠—in a word, all their undertakings, conducted on a plan of society and numbers.</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>⁠—Have you also observed with what a provident kind of instinct they bring out their eggs to be warmed by the sun, and for this end remove them from place to place till the time of their maturity?</p>
			<p><i>Fritz.</i>⁠—Is it not probable, father, that what we take for eggs, are chrysales of ants, which, like many other insects, are thus shut up while the process of their taking wings is in the operation?</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>⁠—You may be right. Writers on natural history have considered the industry and frugality of these insects, as a subject not unworthy of their close consideration;<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-10" id="noteref-10" epub:type="noteref">10</a> but if the common ant of our own country excited so much of your admiration, in what words will you express your astonishment at the almost incredible labours which are performed by the ants of foreign countries! Of these there is a kind which build nests of four, six, and eight feet in height, and large in proportion: the external walls of these structures are formed so thick and solid, that neither sun nor rain can penetrate them. These houses contain within, little streets, arched roofs, piazzas, colonnades, and particular apartments for the offices of housewifery: and the whole of this complicated mass is put together with so much solidity of workmanship, that if emptied and cleaned, it might serve for an oven. The ant is for the most part an animal of pilfering propensities, on the profits of which it principally lives; it is also remarkable for constancy in its designs, and remaining ever in one place: a species of them exists, however, in America, which is known by the name of the Cephalate or visiting ant; they make their appearance in numerous troops every two or three years, and disperse themselves abundantly in every house: as soon as this visitation is observed, it is customary to open all the apartments, and every receptacle for stores; they enter everywhere, and in a short time it is found that they have exterminated as effectually the rats, mice, bugs, kakerles (a sort of insect that gives great annoyance in hot countries);⁠—in a word, all the different animals offensive or injurious to man, as if sent on a special mission to remedy the evils these occasion. They do no injury to man, unless they find in him an enemy, who pursues and disturbs their quiet; in which case they attack his shoes so violently, that they are destroyed with incredible rapidity. On the other hand, they cause terrible devastations in plantations of trees, of which they will entirely strip the leaves in a single night: some of the ants crawl up and separate them from the tree, and then throw them down to their fellow-labourers, who are in waiting to receive and carry the leaves to the ant house. This curious species does not build its house above ground, but they dig holes, sometimes not less than eight feet in depth, and plaster the walls according to the rules of the art of masonry.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-11" id="noteref-11" epub:type="noteref">11</a> Some travellers assert that one of the islands of the South Sea is infested by them to such a degree, that human beings cannot venture to disembark in it. The place is therefore, as it were, yielded to them, and is known to mariners by the name of Ant-island.</p>
			<p><i>Fritz.</i>⁠—And has no means been found to stop the progress of their devastations?</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>⁠—As to what in this respect relates to the ant-island, I am not able to answer your question. In Europe, fortunately for the inhabitants, they are not so formidable: they however occasion sufficient inconvenience to make us study by what means we can best destroy them; and the surest methods are found to be fire and boiling-water. They have, besides, numerous enemies among insects and birds: the most terrible of all is the myrmecophage, or great anteater. Nature, who no doubt intended in this animal to produce a counterpoise against the abundant increase of ants, furnished it with a long gluey tongue, which it drops into the holes of the ant-house: the ants crawl upon it, and remain fixed. When the tongue is sufficiently covered with them, the anteater draws it back, swallows its mouthful greedily, and drops it again with the same success. It is pretended, that two anteaters hostilely engaged against an ant-house, will destroy every inhabitant in a short time. They raise small channels of light sand in the ants’ road, which the creatures in passing, fall entirely through, and are received by the enemy, who swallows them in an instant. Different savage nations, the Hottentots in particular, also devour ants by handfuls.</p>
			<p><i>Fritz.</i>⁠—What a frightful idea! I can scarcely believe the account, father: but this is enough on the chapter of ants. You mentioned just now, that in each class of the animal creation there were some individuals to be found which formed themselves into societies; pray tell me which they are.</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>⁠—I know of no instance among birds, but that we have just been witnessing; but among quadrupeds there is at least one striking example of the social principle:⁠—try to recollect it yourself.</p>
			<p><i>Fritz.</i>⁠—It is perhaps the elephant or the sea-otter?</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>⁠—You have not guessed the one I thought of: in reality, however, the animals you have named discover also a strong disposition to live in society with their species, but they build nothing like a common house of reception:⁠—try again; when you mentioned the sea-otter, you were not far from the right creature.</p>
			<p><i>Fritz.</i>⁠—Ah, now I have found it: is it not the beaver, father? These animals are said to possess so much intelligence, that they are able to contrive and place dams to such streams or rivers as obstruct their design of building entire villages: by this operation they are furnished with a sort of ditch, which they use for their purpose.</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>⁠—This is well observed; and, strictly speaking, the marmoset also may be included in the number of sociable quadrupeds: but these latter cannot be said to build, in the literal sense of the word; they dig themselves a common place of abode, a sort of cavern, in the mountains, and in these whole families of them pass the winter comfortably, in a continual sleep. It would have been more blameable in us to have forgotten them, as they are natives of our country; for it is principally in the highest Alps of Switzerland that the animal is found.</p>
			<p>We had proceeded a considerable way in this kind of conversation, and had reached a wood, the trees of which were unknown to us: they in a small degree resembled the wild fig-tree; at least the fruit they bore, like the fig, was round in form, and contained a soft juicy substance full of small grains: there was, however, a sharpness and sourness in the taste. We took a nearer view of these trees, so remarkable for their height, which was from forty to sixty feet: the bark of the trunk was prickly or scaly, like the pineapple, and wholly bare of branches, except at the very top, where they are loaded with them; some growing straight, and others bent in different directions. The leaves of these trees, at the extremity of the branches, are very thick; in substance, tough, like leather; and their upper and under surfaces presented different tints. But what surprised us the most, was a kind of gum, or bituminous matter, which appeared by some accidental means to issue in a liquid state from the trunk of the tree, and to become immediately hardened by the air. This discovery awakened Fritz’s whole attention: in Europe he had often made use of the gum produced by cherry-trees, either as a cement or varnish in the process of some of his youthful occupations; and the thought struck him, that he could do the same with what he now saw. He accordingly collected with his knife a certain quantity.</p>
			<p>As we continued walking, he looked frequently at his gum, which he tried to soften with his breath, or with the heat of his hand, as he had been accustomed to do with that from the cherry-trees; but he found he could not succeed. On the other hand, his endeavours revealed a still more singular property in the substance, that of stretching considerably on being pulled by the two hands at its extremities; and, on letting go, of reducing itself instantly, by the power of an elastic principle. He was struck with surprise at this phenomenon, and sprang towards me, repeating the experiment before my eyes, and exclaiming, Look, father! if this is not the very kind of Indian rubber we formerly used, to rub out the bad strokes in our drawings: see! I can stretch it, and it instantly shrinks back when I let go.</p>
			<p>Ah! what do you tell me? cried I with joy: such a discovery would be an invaluable benefit. The best thanks of all will be due to you, if you have discovered the true caoutchouc tree which yields the Indian rubber. Quick, hand it here, that I may examine it.</p>
			<p><i>Fritz.</i>⁠—Look, father, how it will stretch! But I do not however understand how it can be so immensely valuable to us: can it be made to serve any other purpose than rubbing out a pencil mark? Nor am I quite sure that it is the very same ingredient. Why is it not black, like that we used in Europe?</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>⁠—How many questions you ask at once! But give me time to breathe, and I will answer them. Caoutchouc is a kind of milky sap, which runs from certain trees, and no doubt from these before us, in consequence of incisions made in the bark. This liquor is received in vessels placed expressly for the purpose: it is afterwards made to take the form of dark-coloured bottles of different sizes, such as we have seen them, in the following manner. Before the liquor which runs out has time to coagulate, some small earthen bottles are dipped into it a sufficient number of times to form the thickness required. These vessels are then hung over smoke, which completely dries them, and gives the dark colour you allude to. Before they are entirely dry, a knife is drawn across them, which produces the lines or figures with which you have seen them marked. The concluding part of the operation is to break the bottle, which has served for a mould, and to get out the pieces by the passage of the neck, when the ingredient remains in the complete form of a bottle; soft to the touch, firm in substance, yet flexible and convenient to carry about, from being not subject to break; and may be even used as a vessel to contain liquor if necessary. In later times it has been discovered that this remarkable substance would extract the mark of black lead from paper; and it is common for artists to cut them into pieces, and to be generally provided with one of them.</p>
			<p><i>Fritz.</i>⁠—The fabrication of this article seems simple enough; therefore let us try to make some bottles of it, father, which will be convenient for carrying something for us to drink, when we go a long way in pursuit of game. But still I do not perceive how the discovery is, as you say, of so much value to us?</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>⁠—Not by this use of it alone, certainly; but its quality is admirable for being made into shoes and boots without seams, if we can add the assistance of earthen moulds of the size of the leg or foot to be fitted. Now then I suppose you can understand my reason for the joy I expressed at the sight of so unexpected a benefit. We must consider of some means of restoring masses of the caoutchouc to its liquid form, for spreading upon the moulds; and if we should not succeed, we must endeavour to draw it in sufficient quantities, when wanted for use and in its liquid state, from the trees themselves. There is besides another use for which this substance is both fit and excellent;⁠—that of rendering waterproof any kind of linen or woollen production to which it may be applied.</p>
			<p>Well satisfied with the discovery we had made, and our fancy already heated by the image of our fine India rubber boots and shoes,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-12" id="noteref-12" epub:type="noteref">12</a> we continued our way, endeavouring still further to explore the wood, which stretched before us to a considerable distance. After passing through it, we reached another called Coeos, with a small part of the skirts of which we were already acquainted, it being the same which stretches from the sea shore to the top of the rocks. There we rested ourselves with great pleasure for a few minutes, and were regaled with two coconuts, which Turk had forced from two little monkeys which were playing on the ground like children. Upon the loss of their food they left him and scampered to the top of the trees, while we on our parts devoured the booty. After this refreshment, we once more resumed our route; we were determined to reach the furthest outlet of this great wood of coconut trees, to examine the dimensions and limits of our empire: in a short time we had taken some observations that enabled us to ascertain this point; and looking attentively, we recognised the great bay on the right, and on the left Cape Disappointment, which latter had been the furthest point of our earliest excursion.</p>
			<p>In this spot alone, and mixed with a quantity of coconut trees, I discovered a sort of tree of smaller growth which I presumed must be the sago palm: one of these had been thrown down by the wind, so that I was able to examine it thoroughly. I perceived that the trunk of it contained a considerable quantity of a mealy substance; I therefore, with my hatchet laid it open longways, and cleared it of the whole contents; and on tasting the ingredient, I found it was exactly like the sago I had often eaten in Europe.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-13" id="noteref-13" epub:type="noteref">13</a> The operation of cutting the trunk had disclosed also a new treasure, and one which confirmed my belief of having found the real sago palm tree; it was the perceiving in the powder, the particular kind of larva which lives entirely on sago, and is considered the greatest delicacy of the West Indies for the palate. The interest I felt on the subject, made me eager for an experiment which would immediately determine my conclusion. I directed Fritz to get some dry branches and make a fire; I ran a sharp stick through half a dozen of the larvae, and toasted them on the flame; the agreeable odour which exhaled from them, and is peculiar to the species, made me certain I was not mistaken: I soon ate one or two of them with a potato, which served for bread, and I may venture to assure the epicures of Europe, that if they desire to obtain a delicious morsel, this alone is worth the pains of a sea-voyage for the purpose. Fritz, who from the first had taken the liberty to smile at my fancy, and to assure me that nothing in the world should induce him to partake of my dish, attracted by the delicious smell and good appearance of the food, had no longer the power to desist: he asked me to give him a small share, and joined me in a chorus of the highest praise. It was now his turn to search for more, and to use the same ceremony in dressing them.</p>
			<p>After our repast, we got up and began to consider how much further we would go: the thick bushes of bamboo, through which it was impossible to pass, seemed to furnish a natural conclusion to our journey. We were therefore unable to ascertain whether we should or should not have found a passage beyond the wall of rocks: we perceived then no better resource than to turn to the left towards Cape Disappointment, where the luxurious plantations of sugarcanes we had discovered on our first visit, now again drew our attention. That we might not return empty-handed to Falcon’s Stream, and might deserve forgiveness for so long an absence, we each took the pains to cut a large bundle of the canes, which we threw across the ass’s back, not forgetting the ceremony of reserving one apiece to refresh ourselves with along the road. We soon arrived on the well-known shore of the sea, which at length afforded us an open and shorter path; we next, and not long after, reached the wood of gourds, where we found our sledge loaded as we had left it the night before: we took the sugarcanes from the ass, and fastened them to the sledge, and then we harnessed the ass, and the patient animal began to draw towards home.</p>
			<p>We arrived at Falcon’s Stream without any further adventure, and rather early in the evening. We received at first some kind reproofs; we were next questioned, and lastly thanked, as we displayed our various treasures, but particularly the sugarcanes: each of the boys seized one and began to suck it, as did their mother also. Nothing could be more amusing than to hear Fritz relate, with unaffected interest, the recent discoveries we had made, and imitate the gestures of the heath-cock as he held it up for them to examine:⁠—the whole company continued to shout with laughter for many minutes. Then came the history of the colony of birds and their singular habitation, and of the green parrot, all of which was listened to with the delight excited by a fairy tale. Fritz showed them the handsome red parrot dead, also the great blue jay, both of which they did not cease to admire; but when Fritz took out of his waistcoat pocket the little parrot all alive, there was no bounds to their ecstasy: they jumped about like mad things, and I was obliged to interpose my authority to prevent their tearing him to pieces, in the struggle who should have him first. Francis asked his eldest brother if he had not already taught him some words in their way home? I intended the office of preceptor for you, said Fritz, who are such a little prate-apace that the parrot would not be long in learning. Francis nearly devoured the little animal with kisses, repeating a thousand times “pretty little parrot!” At length the bird was fastened by the leg to one of the roots of the trees, till a cage could be made for him; and was fed with acorns, which he appeared exceedingly to relish. We next gave an account of the excellent dinner we had made on the larvae found in the sago-meal, which excited the envy of all but my wife, who was never partial to new kinds of food. I therefore promised her for her share of so many dainties, some real mushrooms which grew spontaneously from the powder of the sago. She was delighted with the prospect of the candles I assured her I was now able to furnish, and also of the boots and shoes. Fritz took a bit of the rubber from his pocket and drew it to its full length, and then let it suddenly go, to the great amusement of little Francis.</p>
			<p>Soon after night fall, being much fatigued, and after partaking of a hearty supper, we all mounted the ladder; and having carefully drawn it up, we fell exhausted, into sound and peaceful slumbers.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
