<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-11" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">The settling in the giant tree.</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p><span class="smcap">I had</span> thought it necessary to keep watch during this first night, for the protection of my family. Every leaf that stirred, gave me the apprehension that it was the approach of a jackall or a tiger, who might attack some member of my family. As soon as one of the heaps was consumed, I lighted another; and at length, finding that no animal appeared, I by degrees became assured, and at last fell into so sound a sleep, that I did not awake early enough for the execution of my project for that day. The boys were all up and about me. We took our breakfast, and fell to our work. My wife, having finished her daily occupation of milking the cow, and preparing the breakfast for the family, and for all the animals, set off with Ernest, Jack, and Francis, attended by the ass, to the sea-shore; they had no doubt of finding some more pieces of wood, and they thought it would be prudent to replenish our exhausted store. In her absence, I ascended the tree with Fritz, and made the necessary preparations for my undertaking, for which I found it in every respect convenient; for the branches grew extremely close to each other, and in an exactly horizontal direction. Such as grew in a manner to obstruct my design, I cut off either with the saw or hatchet, leaving none but what presented me with a sort of foundation for my work. I left those which spread themselves evenly upon the trunk, and had the largest circuit, as a support for my floor. Above these, at the height of forty-six feet, I found others, upon which to suspend our hammocks; and higher still, there was a further series of branches, destined to receive the roof of my tent, which for the present was to be formed of nothing more than a large surface of sail-cloth.</p>
			<p>The progress of these preparations was considerably slow. It was necessary to raise certain beams to this height of forty feet, that were too heavy for my wife and her little assistants to lift from the ground without great effort. I had, however, the resource of my pulley, which served to excellent purpose. My wife and her little boys fastened the beams to pieces of cord above, while Fritz and I contrived to draw them up to the elevation of the tent one by one. When I had already placed two beams upon the branches, I hastened to fix my planks upon them; and I made my floor double, that it might have sufficient solidity if the beams should be in any way warped from their places. I then formed a wall something like a park-paling, all round, to prevent accidents to ourselves or children. This operation, and a third journey to the sea-shore to collect the timber necessary, filled our morning so completely, that not one of us had thought about dinner. For this once it was requisite to be content with a simple provision of ham and milk. Dinner ended, we returned to work to finish our aërial palace, which now began to make an imposing appearance. We unhooked our hammocks, <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr> from the projecting roots from which they had at first been suspended; and, by means of my pulley, contrived to hoist them up to our new habitation. The sail-cloth roof was supported by the thick branches above; and as it was of great compass, and hung down on every side, the idea occurred to me of nailing it to the paling on two sides, and thus getting not only a roof, but two walls also; the immense trunk of the tree forming a third; while a fourth side contained the entrance of our apartment; and this I left entirely open, both as a means of seeing what passed without, and for admitting a current of air to cool us in this burning temperature. We also on this side enjoyed an extensive and uninterrupted view of the vast ocean, and its lengthening shore. The hammocks were soon suspended from the branches above, and now every thing was ready for our reception that very evening. Well satisfied with the execution of my plan, I descended with Fritz, who had assisted me throughout the whole; and as the day was not far advanced, and I observed we had still some planks remaining, we set about contriving a large table to be placed between the roots of the tree, and surrounded with benches; and this place, we said, should be called our dining-parlour. For this time, we performed our task but slightly, for I confess I was much fatigued. The table, on the whole, however, was such as might be well endured, and the view of it gave my wife considerable satisfaction as she looked on, busied with preparations for our supper. In the mean time, the three youngest boys collected all the pieces of wood we had thrown down from the tree, and put them together to dry in a heap, at a small distance from our fire-place. I also tied together a quantity of small wood which we had collected, and which served to augment our store for making fires.</p>
			<p>Entirely exhausted by the fatigues of the day, I threw myself at full length on a bank, saying to my wife, that as I had worked like a galley-slave to-day, I should allow myself some rest to-morrow. My wife answered, that not only I was entitled to a day of rest, but that it was a duty incumbent on me to take it on the following day; for, said she, I have calculated that to-morrow is Sunday. Unfortunately we had already passed one sabbath-day without recollecting that it was so.</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>—I thank you, my dear, for making this discovery, and I promise you that the day shall be celebrated by us, as it ought to be. It was not unknown to me that we had passed over one Sunday without a due observance of the duties it imposes; but I confess it appeared to me, that being caused by the extraordinary exertions we had to make for the preservation of our lives in a desert place, to which it had pleased God to conduct us, it was a pardonable omission; but now that we seem to have surmounted many difficulties, and to have secured ourselves an habitation, we should indeed be culpable not to celebrate in a solemn and particular manner, the day he has consecrated to himself.</p>
			<p><i>My Wife.</i>—Be assured, my dear, that I shall heartily join you in rendering thanks to God, who in so imminent a danger preserved all that was dear to me, and affords us here, in a strange and desert land, not only the necessaries of life, but many of its comforts also. I could no where have met with an habitation more to my fancy, than that you have effected for us in the tree. I will mount the ladder this evening with you, for I feel almost a child’s joy at the idea of passing the night up in the air, as we may call it. Let us quickly eat our supper and go to bed, without dropping a word about its being Sunday to-morrow. It will be a great pleasure to me to surprise the boys with the news of a day of rest from labour, which they did not expect.</p>
			<p>And I, for my part, said I, am rejoiced to find you thus contented and resigned to your fate, and entertaining no contempt for our imperfect contrivances. But now let us see what you have prepared for our reward; and let us call the children round us; I feel in want of such a restorative after my fatigue.</p>
			<p>The little company was soon assembled round the table. Their mother followed, holding in her hand an earthen pot, which we had before observed upon the fire, and the contents of which we were all curious to be informed of. She took off the cover, and with a fork drew out of it the flamingo which Fritz had killed. She informed us that she had preferred dressing it this way, to roasting, because Ernest had assured her that it was an old bird, which would prove hard and tough, and had advised her to improve it by stewing. We rallied our glutton boy on this foible of his character, and his brothers gave him the name of the <i>cook</i>. We, however, had soon reason to know, that he had conferred upon us an important obligation; for the bird, which roasted we perhaps should not have been able to touch, now appeared excellent, and was eaten up to the very bones.</p>
			<p>While we were thus enjoying our repast, the live flamingo stalked up to the place where we were sitting, in the midst of our flock of fowls, to receive his part of the repast, little thinking that it was his late companion that had furnished it. The live flamingo had now become so tame, that we had released him from the stake. He took his walks gravely from place to place, and looked perfectly contented with his company. His fine plumage was a most pleasing sight; while, on the other hand, the sportive tricks and the grimaces of our little monkey, afforded the most agreeable spectacle imaginable. The little animal had become quite familiar with us; jumped from the shoulder of one to that of another; always caught adroitly the meat we threw him, and ate it in so pleasant a way as to make us laugh heartily. To increase our merriment, the old sow, which hitherto had shown an unconquerable aversion to our society, and which we had missed for two whole days, was now seen advancing towards us, grunting at every step. For this time, however, her grunting indicated her joy at having found us once more: and the joy was mutual; of which my wife gave her a substantial proof, by serving her instantly with what remained of our daily allowance of milk.</p>
			<p>I confess I thought her a little too generous, till she explained to me that it was necessary to contrive some utensils proper for making butter and cheese, and that till this was done, it was better to turn the milk to profit in this way, than, in so hot a climate, to let it be spoiled. And it was the more necessary, she added, as our grain began to run short, and that, as pigs are very fond of milk, it might be a means of preventing her wandering from us again.</p>
			<p>I always find you right, my dear, said I. It shall not be long ere we again undertake another visit to the vessel, to fetch a new provision of grain for your poultry.</p>
			<p>Again the subject of the vessel, said she, with a sort of reproachful regret; I shall never enjoy a moment’s happiness till it is gone to the bottom, and you shall have entirely banished it from your thoughts! You never make a voyage that does not leave me filled with agonizing alarm for your safety.</p>
			<p>I cannot deny, replied I, that there may be some reason for this; but I must remind you that we always choose a day of calm and settled weather for our excursion; and in my opinion we should be unpardonable, if we allowed ourselves to be so subdued by causeless alarms, as to neglect the means of obtaining a variety of useful things, which Providence seems to have reserved for our use.</p>
			<p>During this conversation, the boys, by my direction, had lighted one of the heaps of wood for the protection of our animals. This being done, we tied long ropes loosely round the necks of our dogs, purposing to mount to our tent with the ends in my hand, that I might be able to let them loose upon the enemy at the first barking I should hear. Every one was now eager to retire to rest, and the signal for ascending the ladder, was given. The three eldest boys were up in an instant; then came their mother’s turn, who proceeded slowly and cautiously, and arrived in perfect safety. My own ascension was the last, and the most difficult; for I carried little Francis on my back, and the end of the ladder had been loosened at the bottom, that I might be able to draw it up in the tent during the night: every step, therefore, was made with the greatest difficulty, in consequence of its swinging motion. At last, however, I got to the top, and, to the admiration of the boys, drew the ladder after me. It appeared to them that we were in one of the strong castles of the ancient chevaliers, in which, when the draw-bridge is raised, the inhabitants are secured from every attack of the enemy. Notwithstanding this apparent safety, I kept our guns in readiness for whatever event might require their use. We now abandoned ourselves to repose; our hearts experienced a full tranquillity; and the fatigue we had all undergone, induced so sound a sleep, that day-light shone full in the front of our habitation, before our eyes were opened.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
