<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXV: A New Excursion.—Palm-Tree Wine.</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter-2-9" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXV</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">A New Excursion.⁠—Palm-Tree Wine.</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p><span class="smcap">On</span> entering our new plantation of fruit-trees forming the avenue to Falcon’s Stream, we observed that they had not a vigorous appearance, and that they inclined to curve a little in the stalk: we therefore immediately resolved to support them with sticks, and I proposed a walk to the vicinity of Cape Disappointment, for the purpose of cutting some bamboos. I had no sooner pronounced the words, than the three eldest boys and their mother exclaimed at once that they would accompany me. Their curiosity had been excited by the accounts Fritz and I had given of the variety of amusing objects we had met with in our visit to the spot: each found a sound and special reason why he must not fail to be of the party:⁠—one of the hens was observed to be brooding, and some of the eggs of the heath-fowl were to be fetched and laid under her;⁠—our provision of candles was nearly exhausted, and a new stock of berries must therefore be procured, for my wife now repaired our clothes by candlelight, while I employed myself in composing a journal of the events of every day:⁠—Then, the sow had again deserted us, and nothing could be so probable as that we should find her in the acorn wood:⁠—Jack would fain gather some guavas for himself, and Francis must needs see the sugarcanes he sucked with so keen a relish. In short, all would visit this land of Canaan.</p>
			<p>We accordingly fixed the following morning, and set out in full procession. For myself, I had a great desire to explore with more attention this part of our island, and to reap some more substantial advantages from its produce. I therefore made some preparations for sleeping, should we find the day too short for all we might have to accomplish: I took the cart instead of the sledge, having fixed some planks across it for Francis and his mother to sit upon when they should be tired; I was careful to be provided with the different implements we might want, some rope machinery I had contrived for rendering the climbing of trees more easy, since we could not always expect to meet with a crab who should obligingly give us his assistance; and lastly, some provisions, consisting of a piece of the salted tortoise, some water in a gourd-flask, and one bottle of wine from the captain’s store. When all was placed in the cart, I for this time harnessed to it both the ass and the cow, as I expected the load would be increased on our return; and we set out, taking the road of the potato and manioc plantations. Our first halt was at the tree of the colony of birds; close upon the same spot were also the trees whose berries produced the wax for candles, and intermixed with these some of the guava kind. On this second occasion of seeing the birds, I recollected to what species they belonged, which by naturalists is named <i>Loxia gregaria</i> (Sociable Grossbeak).</p>
			<p>It was not without much difficulty that we conducted the cart through the thick entangled bushes, the most intricate of which I everywhere cut down, and we helped to push it along with all our strength. We succeeded tolerably well at last; and that the poor animals might have time to rest, we determined to pass several hours in this place which furnished such a variety of agreeable and useful objects. We began by gathering a bag full of the guavas; and after regaling ourselves plentifully upon them, we put the remainder into the cart. We next examined anew, and with close attention, the interesting structure of the nest inhabited by the colony of birds, and concluded, contrary to the opinion I had formerly entertained, that the little green parrot was an invader who had seized upon an empty place, and fixed himself in it; for numerous flocks of the brown-coloured birds now passed in and out, rested upon the bushes which produced the wax, and devoured large quantities of the berries, which explained the reason of their building their singularly-contrived abode in this particular spot. We claimed the same privilege as the birds, and had soon filled another bag with the berries we found means to beat down from the bushes. Seeing them so greedily consumed by those little animals, the boys desired to follow their example, and accordingly tasted them, but found them too insipid for their palate.</p>
			<p>We had brought the monkey with us to search out the nests of the heath-fowl, that we might seize upon the eggs; but we postponed the setting him on this employment till we should again reach the place on our way back, for fear of breaking the eggs in carrying. We continued our way, and soon arrived at the caoutchouc, or gum-elastic trees: I thought we could not do better than to make a halt here, and endeavour to collect a sufficient quantity of the sap, to make the different kinds of utensils, and the impenetrable boots and shoes, as I had before proposed. It was with this design that I had taken care to bring with me several of the most capacious of the gourd rinds. I made deep incisions in the trunks, and fixed some large leaves of trees partly doubled together lengthways, to the place, to serve as a sort of channel to conduct the sap to the vessels I had kept in readiness to receive it. We had not long begun this process before we perceived the sap begin to run out as white as milk, and in large drops, so that we were not without hopes by the time of our return to find the vessels full, and thus to have obtained a sufficient quantity of the ingredient for a first experiment.</p>
			<p>We left the sap running, and pursued our way, which led us to the wood of coconut trees; from thence we passed to the left, and stopped halfway between the bamboos and the sugar canes, intending to furnish ourselves with a provision of each. We aimed our course so judiciously, that on clearing the skirts of the wood we found ourselves in an open plain, with the sugarcane plantations on our left, and on our right those of bamboo interspersed with various kinds of palm-trees, and in front the magnificent bay formed by Cape Disappointment, which stretched far out into the sea.</p>
			<p>The prospect that now presented itself to our view was of such exquisite beauty, that we determined to choose it for our resting-place, and to make it the central point of every excursion we should in future make: we were even more than half disposed to desert our pretty Falcon’s Stream, and transport our possessions hither: a moment’s reflection, however, betrayed the folly of quitting the thousand comforts we had there with almost incredible industry assembled: and we dismissed the thought with promising ourselves to include this ravishing spot ever more in our projects for excursions. We disengaged the animals, that they might graze and refresh themselves under the shade of the palm-trees, and sat down to enjoy our own repast, and to converse on the beauty of the scene.</p>
			<p>Our next proceeding was to divide amongst us the different occupations which were the objects of our walk. Some scampered away to the right to cut bamboos; others to the left, to secure the sugarcanes, of both which a large bundle was collected, tied together, and put into the cart. The bodily exertions made by the boys again excited their desire to eat; they sucked some of the canes, but their hunger was not appeased. Their mother, however, refused to let them have the remainder of the provisions, and they therefore cast a longing eye to the tops of the trees, where they saw a great number of coconuts suspended. After a short deliberation, it was determined that two of them should venture on climbing to the top, a height of from sixty to eighty feet, and with the hatchet which would be fastened to his waist, should beat them down. Fritz and Jack had no hesitation; they selected the trees which had most fruit for their attempt, and with my assistance they proceeded a considerable way; but when left to themselves, their legs and arms were too short to embrace the trunk of the tree, and having no place of rest for either, they scampered down again much quicker than they had ascended, chagrined and out of countenance. It was now my part to interfere: I wished, said I, to let you try for yourselves first; but though it may be well to be possessed of personal courage, yet at your age, my boys, it is advisable to distrust your own suggestions and to ask advice from persons of experience: had you applied for mine, I should have told you how impossible it would be for you to mount such a tree as this without assistance. It is true, very young sailor-boys mount to the heads of masts, which are nearly as high; but then the mast is of small circumference, and the boys have, besides, the aid of ropes. I have something here which may answer the same purpose;⁠—here are some pieces of prepared shagreen, which must be tied round your legs; then with this cord I shall fasten you by the body to the trunk of the tree, but so loosely that it will move up and down when you do; by sitting occasionally on this cord, you will be enabled to rest when necessary, and so push on by little and little. This manner of climbing trees is practised by savages and by negro slaves with success. At first you will make but slow progress, but after two or three experiments you will find no further difficulty.</p>
			<p>The boys had listened with entire attention: excited by the description I had made, they eagerly demanded to be equipped for the experiment, and their success exceeded our expectation; they with tolerable ease reached the top of the tree, where the thick tufted foliage furnished a commodious seat, and from whence they sent forth exulting salutations. They now took their hatchets and set to work, when presently a shower of coconuts descended, from which the persons below had barely time to escape by running to a distance. The monkey having observed what was going on, took the fancy of imitating his young masters, and springing from the ground into one of the trees, he with his teeth and his paws sent down as many nuts as the hatchet: he then came down with equal swiftness, and seating himself on the ground began to crack one of the nuts, making all the time such strange grimaces as to occasion us all much merriment. The two boys had descended with more caution than the monkey, and with perfect safety: they received our compliments on the skill and address they had evinced in so promptly making themselves masters of so valuable an art.</p>
			<p>Ernest was the only person who took no part in this animated scene: his brothers began to banter him a little on the old subject of his indolence; they approached him gravely, and offered him some coconut, <i>to refresh him after so much fatigue;</i> he made no reply, and pushed the offering aside. He then rose from his seat, and began to examine the trees one by one with deep attention; he requested me to saw off the top of a coconut for him, which he emptied, and fastened round it crossways a string with a loop to hang it to the button of his waistcoat. Not one of us could imagine what he was going to do; he placed a small hatchet in his girdle, and then advancing a few paces out of the group we formed, he in a graceful manner pronounced the following little address:</p>
			<p>“I am sensible, my dear parents, that in our republic, or rather in our kingdom, (for our father is to us as a beloved sovereign, and our mother as a much cherished queen,) I am I say sensible, that here, as in Europe, he who has sufficient talent to raise himself above the rest, is held in high consideration and esteem. For my own part, I must confess I had more pleasure in remaining in tranquillity without endeavours to obtain distinction. I have but little ambition, and am fond of quiet, and therefore the greater will be my desert, if I, like the rest, resolve to contribute to the general good of this our country, by executing, as the other subjects have done, the task of climbing trees; well satisfied if, like them, I should obtain the applauses of my king and of my fellow-citizens!⁠—To the tree then, since climbing is the question,” said he, saluting us with his hand as he sprang away to a high palm-tree of the cabbage species.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-15" id="noteref-15" epub:type="noteref">15</a></p>
			<p>I looked with extreme curiosity; but when I saw him courageously grasp the trunk with his legs and arms, and proceed to climb without assistance, I approached the tree and offered him the shagreen and the cord; he accepted the first, but refused the cord. I am naturally somewhat awkward, observed he, and to have to draw a cord after me would only add to my difficulty; besides, I think I have no occasion for it. In fact, he employed so much earnest desire in the undertaking, and exerted his limbs with so much spirit, that I was astonished at the rapidity of his ascent, and conceived at every remove the most terrible alarm, since the further from the ground, the more danger would attend him, should any slip or other accident occasion him to fall. I kept my station near the foot of the tree, continually encouraging him by calling out: Bravo, bravo, boy Ernest, though last in attempt, yet it is you who have shown the greatest courage, for you have not, like your brothers, had assistance from the cord. Fritz and Jack, who were spectators also, now, instead of seeming humbled by my repeated commendation of Ernest, to my great surprise, were observed whispering each other with an air of self-satisfaction; I could not for my own part conceive what could be the subject of their seeming exultation, but I soon learnt the truth. When Ernest now showed himself at the very top of the tree, Fritz and Jack burst into an immoderate fit of laughter:⁠—Pains enough for nothing, master Ernest, bawled they as loud as they could: in your sublime wisdom, master Ernest, you have chosen a tree which has no fruit upon it. Not a single coconut will you bring down, your most devoted fellow-subjects can truly assure you!</p>
			<p>Not a coconut, certainly, replied Ernest in his loudest voice; but, brothers, you shall receive a crown instead, and at the same instant he with his hatchet cut off the tufted summit of the palm-tree, and a large mass of tender leaves fell at our feet.</p>
			<p>Mischievous boy! cried his mother: disappointed of his coconuts, see if he has not cut off the head of this magnificent palm-tree, and it will perish in consequence! Ah! Ernest, what do you not deserve for thus giving way to anger!</p>
			<p>I am happy, mother, to be able to correct your mistake, cried Ernest from his stately column, where he stood erect, and looked exactly like a statue. What I have done was not from anger, but from a desire to procure you one of the finest kinds of food this country affords; the tree is the cabbage palm-tree, and believe me you will find it a more valuable acquisition than even our highly prized coconuts!⁠—A cabbage! exclaimed Fritz: Ah, ah! Master Ernest, so you would make us believe that cabbages grow on palm-trees, and that we are in a land of wonders!</p>
			<p>In a land of wonders, my son, we can never fail to be, in whatever place we may abide, for the whole scheme of nature is a perpetual tissue of wonders proceeding from the hand of a beneficent Creator; and those we now behold appear to us extraordinary, only because we view them for the first time. Examine this production, to which the name of palm-cabbage has been given by naturalists; it has not the shape of our European cabbage; but, as Ernest tells you, it is a most delicious and refreshing food: he has also had the merit of distinguishing this tree from others: and let me seize the present occasion, young ones, to reprove you for the taunting spirit in which you viewed your brother’s proceedings, who, though less enterprising and less alert than you, so far surpasses any one of you in observation and reflection. To him we are indebted for the most useful of the discoveries which have been made⁠—the potatoes and the manioc: if, instead of envying each other, you were to unite your various endowments, what happiness and what success might be the result! Ernest would think for you, you would execute for him; thus, all would share in the advantages which would result from this spirit of concord, so necessary among mankind, but particularly among brothers. Let me also recommend to you to accustom yourselves to suspend your judgement on the actions of another, till those actions are complete and you are quite sure both of their object and effect. Even you, well-beloved of my heart, were not on this occasion free from blame towards your boy! Try then to make him such reparation as your kind maternal heart shall dictate!</p>
			<p>Most willingly, cried she, her eyes filling with tears of tenderness; and she looked up to invite him to come down: mine and the boys’ followed in the same direction; when we beheld Ernest in a fixed erect position in the very centre of the palm-tree, which he had stripped of its crown, as motionless as if he had become a cabbage. The whole effect of this spectacle was irresistibly ludicrous; and accordingly the boys, in spite of the lecture I had that moment concluded, burst into an immoderate fit of laughter.</p>
			<p>I now called out to Ernest: Do you mean, said I, to stay all night in your tree, or are you afraid to trust yourself with coming down?</p>
			<p>Far from it, father, answered he; but I am engaged in preparing you here some good sauce for the cabbage, and the operation takes a longer time than I imagined: but have a little patience, and I will bring down something for you to drink to my health.</p>
			<p>What can he mean? asked little Francis; I dare say he has found a fountain in the tree; do you know, papa, I have been thinking that this must be an enchanted forest, like those I have read about in my little books; perhaps some of those trees are all the time princes and princesses:⁠—do you not think it very likely, brother Fritz? said the young innocent with so real and fearful a persuasion, that we all laughed heartily as we answered his question. His mother took him on her knee and explained to him the nature of a fairytale, while the scene for my own part strengthened me in the opinion that children should be told nothing but the truth.</p>
			<p>By this time Ernest had finished his work, and was descending cautiously from the tree. When he reached the ground, he released the coconut shell from his button, held it delicately in one hand, while with the other he drew from his pocket a small bottle, and pulling out the cork he emptied the contents into the shell, and presented it to me, saying: Most gracious sovereign, permit your devoted cupbearer to present you with a specimen of a new and choice beverage he has been so fortunate as to procure for you: may it be pleasing to your royal taste: it is called palmist-wine, and your faithful slave waits but your commands to obtain a larger supply!⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>My wife and the other boys looked on in astonishment. I was myself less surprised, having read accounts of this production in different books. I was, however, much gratified to owe the acquisition to the study and reflection of my young philosopher, as I now called Ernest. It is excellent, my boy, said I, and we shall unite in drinking it to your health, with sensations of gratitude and affection. This was accordingly done.</p>
			<p>I then made some inquiries of Ernest, as to his previous knowledge of the tree and its properties; and he answered, that if he had been quite sure of these being the kind producing cabbage, he should sooner have ascended. I knew, continued he, that there was a sort of palm which bore a cabbage at the top; and while my brothers were getting up for the coconuts, I was looking about in hopes to find it, and presently I thought that the tree which had no coconuts was most likely to be the sort; and you see I was lucky, in my guess. He then related his expectation of finding some of our famous palm-wine also. When I had cut off the cabbage, said he, a quantity of juice issued from the place, which I tasted and found delicious: you know the rest, father, added he; and I have only to regret that I had not a larger bottle to receive it; but now that we know the means, we can obtain the liquor when we please.</p>
			<p>A small quantity at a time, observed I, will always be best; for the juice, though so like to champagne in flavour, and which would perhaps affect our heads as soon if we were to use it freely, would by tomorrow, like the coconut milk, be quite sour: as there are abundance of the trees, we can, as you say, procure the liquor at pleasure, only taking care to be moderate; for it is affirmed by writers on natural history, that if the cabbage at the top is cut off, the tree dies, and we should therefore in time destroy the species. There are other sorts of palm-trees besides those we have noticed; one in particular, which yields a kind of oil which burns whatever it is applied to; we shall perhaps meet with it. In the meantime, let us render thanks to Providence for the benefits he has bestowed.</p>
			<p>It was now past noon; and as we had determined to pass the night in this enchanting spot, we began to think of forming some large branches of trees into a sort of hut, as is practised by the hunters in America, to shelter us from the dew and the coolness of the air, for we had dismissed our fears of the approach of wild-beasts, not having in so long a time been visited by any. I accordingly set to work; I had brought a piece of sailcloth with me from Falcon’s Stream, and I drove some stakes into the ground, and covered them with it, filling the opening in the front with some branches I had cut for the purpose. While we were engaged in our work, which was nearly completed, we were suddenly roused by the loud braying of the ass, which we had left to graze at a distance but a short time before. As we approached nearer to the place, we saw him throwing his head in the air, and kicking and prancing about in a most extraordinary manner; and while we were thinking what could be the matter, he set off on a full gallop, leaving us in a state of astonishment at all we saw. Unfortunately, Turk and Porto, whom we sent after him, took the fancy of entering the plantation of the sugarcanes, while the ass had preferred the direction of the bamboos on the right. We began to fear the approach of some wild beast might have frightened the creature, and to think of assembling our firearms. In a little time the dogs returned, and showed no signs, by scenting the ground or otherwise, of any pursuit. I made a turn round the hut to see that all was well, and then sallied forth with Fritz and the two dogs in the direction the ass had taken, hoping the latter might be enabled to trace him by the scent; but the familiar creatures could not be made to understand our meaning; they lived habitually with the ass, and had no notion of the new reason for following him; so that they did no more than run from place to place for their amusement; and as night was coming on, I prudently gave up the pursuit and returned to my companions.</p>
			<p>Fatigued, and vexed with the loss of the ass, which was so eminently useful to us, I entered the hut, which I found complete and provided with the necessary branches strewed on the ground for sleeping, and with some reeds for making a fire, which the freshness of the evening air rendered agreeable to all: it served us also for cooking our supper; and after it had been partaken by us all, we were glad to lie down upon the branches and enjoy the blessing of sleep. When all was safe, I watched and replenished the fire till midnight, rather from habit than the fear of wild beasts, and then took possession of the little corner assigned me near my slumbering companions.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
