<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>IV: Return from the Voyage of Discovery. A Nocturnal Alarm.</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-4" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">Return from the Voyage of Discovery. A Nocturnal Alarm.</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>My poor boy now began to complain heavily of fatigue; the bundle of sugarcanes galled his shoulders, and he was obliged to move it from place to place. At last, he stopped to take breath. No, cried he, I never could have thought that a few sugarcanes could be so heavy. How sincerely I pity the poor Negroes who carry them in even larger quantities, and to a greater distance! I should however be so glad, if my mother and my brother could but partake of our booty!</p>
			<p>A little patience and a little courage, dear Fritz, replied I, will enable you to accomplish this wish; recollect Aesop’s breadbasket, which at first was so overwhelming a burden, but which at last became so light. We can cause it to be the same with your sugarcanes, if we consent to diminish them by sucking a certain number of them on the road; as a precedent, you may dispose of one to me, and I will use it at one moment as a walking-stick, and at another as a sugarplum. Take you one, also; the rest we will bind together and put at your back, hanging them upon the barrel of your gun, by which means you will carry them with ease.</p>
			<p>In such a situation as ours we must learn to call forth all our intelligence; reflection and the faculty of invention must be made to compensate our want of means.</p>
			<p>While we were conversing and proceeding on our way, Fritz perceived that from time to time I sucked the end of my sugarcane, and he would needs do the same. It was in vain, however, that he tried; scarcely a drop of the sap reached his eager lips. What then is the reason, said he, that though the cane is full of juice, I cannot get out a drop?</p>
			<p>The reason is, answered I, that you make use neither of reflection nor of your imagination.</p>
			<p>Ah! I recollect now, is it not a question about air? Unless there were a particular opening in the cane, I may suck in vain, no juice will come.</p>
			<p>You have well explained the difficulty: but how will you manage to set it right?</p>
			<p>Father, lend me your cane an instant.</p>
			<p>No, no, that will not do; what I wish is, that you should yourself invent the remedy.</p>
			<p>Let me see; I imagine that I have only to make a little opening just above the first knot, and then the air can enter.</p>
			<p>Exactly right. But tell me what you think would be the operation of this opening near the first knot; and in what manner can it make the juice get into your mouth?</p>
			<p>The pith of the cane being completely interrupted by each knot in its growth, the opening that I might make below, could have no effect upon the part above; in sucking the juice, I draw in my breath, and thus exhaust the air in my mouth; the external air presses at the same time through the hole I have made, and fills this void: the juice of the cane forms an obstacle to this effort, and is accordingly driven into my mouth. But how shall I manage, when I have sucked this part dry, to get at the part above?</p>
			<p>Oh, ho! <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Philosopher, what should prevent you, who have been reasoning so well about the force and fluidity of the air, from immediately conceiving so simple a process as that of cutting away the part of the cane you have already sucked dry, and making a second perforation in the part above, so that.⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>Oh, I have it, I have it, I understand;⁠—but if we should become too expert in the art of drawing out the juice, I fear but few of the canes will reach our good friends in the tent.</p>
			<p>I also am not without my apprehensions, that of our acquisition we shall carry them only a few sticks for firewood; for I must bring another circumstance to your recollection: the juice of the sugarcane is apt to turn sour soon after cutting, and the more certainly in such heat as we now experience; we may suck them therefore without compunction, and without regret at the diminution of their numbers.</p>
			<p>Well then, if we can do no better with the sugarcanes, at least I will take them a good provision of the milk of coconuts, which I have here in a tin bottle; we shall sit round on the grass and drink it so deliciously!</p>
			<p>In this too, my generous boy, I fear, you will also be disappointed. You talk of milk; but the milk of the coconut, no less than the juice of the sugarcane, when exposed to the air and heat, turns soon to vinegar. I would almost wager that it is already sour; for the tin bottle which contains it, is particularly liable to become hot in the sun.</p>
			<p>O heavens, how provoking! I must taste it this very minute. The tin bottle was lowered from his shoulder in the twinkling of an eye, and he began to pull the cork with all his strength; as soon as it was loose, the liquid flew upwards in a brisk stream, and with a loud noise and frothing like champagne.</p>
			<p>Bravo, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fritz! you have manufactured there a wine of some mettle. I must now caution you not to let it make you tipsy.</p>
			<p>Oh, taste it, father, pray taste it; it is quite delicious; not the least like vinegar; it is rather like excellent new wine; its taste is sweet, and it is so sparkling! do take a little, father. Is it not good? If all the milk remains in this state, the treat will be better even than I thought.</p>
			<p>I wish it may prove so: but I have my fears; its present state is what is called the first degree of fermentation; the same thing happens to honey dissolved in water, of which hydromel is made. When this first fermentation is past, and the liquid is clear, it is become a sort of wine, or other fermented liquor, the quality of which depends on the materials used. By the application of heat, there next results a second and more gradual fermentation, which turns the fluid into vinegar. But this may be prevented by extraordinary care, and by keeping the vessel that contains it in a cool place. Lastly, a third fermentation takes place in the vinegar itself, which entirely changes its character, and deprives it of its taste, its strength, and its transparency. In the intense temperature of this climate, this triple fermentation comes on very rapidly, so that it is not improbable that, on entering our tent, you might find your liquids turned to vinegar, or even to a thick liquid of ill odour: we may therefore venture to refresh ourselves with a portion of our booty, that it may not all be spoiled. Come then, I drink your health, and that of our dear family. I find the liquor at present both refreshing and agreeable; but I am pretty sure that, if we would arrive sober, we must not venture on frequent libations.</p>
			<p>Our regale imparted to our exhausted frames an increase of strength and cheerfulness; we pursued our way with briskness, to the place where we had left our gourd utensils upon the sands; we found them perfectly dry, as hard as bone, and not the least misshapen. We now therefore could put them into our game bags conveniently enough; and this done, we continued our way. Scarcely had we passed through the little wood in which we breakfasted, when Turk sprang furiously away to seize upon a troop of monkeys, who were skipping about and amusing themselves without observing our approach toward the place of their merriment. They were thus taken by surprise; and before we could get to the spot, our ferocious Turk had already seized one of them: it was a female monkey who held a young one in her arms, which she was caressing almost to suffocation, and which incumbrance in reality deprived her of the power of escaping. The poor creature was killed, and afterwards devoured; the young one hid himself in the grass, and looked on grinding his teeth all the time that this horrible achievement was performing. Fritz flew like lightning to force the ferocious Turk from his prey. He lost his hat, threw down his tin bottle, canes, and other burdens, but all in vain; he arrived too late to prevent the murder of the interesting mother.</p>
			<p>The next scene that presented itself was of a different nature, and comical enough; it afforded me considerable amusement. The young monkey, on perceiving Fritz, sprang nimbly on his shoulders, and fastened his feet securely in the stiff curls of his hair; nor could the squalls of Fritz, nor all the shaking he gave him, make him let go his hold. I ran to them, laughing heartily, for I saw that the animal was too young to be capable of doing him any injury, while the expression of the panic in the features of the boy, made the most diverting contrast with the grimaces of the monkey, whom I in vain endeavoured to disengage. There is no remedy, Fritz, said I, but to submit quietly and carry him; he will furnish an addition to our stock of provisions, though less alluring, I must needs confess, than that we could wish to take to your mother. The conduct of the little animal displays a very surprising intelligence; he has lost his mother, and he adopts you for his father; perhaps he discovered in you something of the air of a father of a family.</p>
			<p>Or rather the little rogue found out that he had to do with a chickenhearted fellow, who shrinks with aversion from the idea of ill-treating an animal which has thrown itself on his protection. But I assure you, father, he is giving me some terrible twitches, and I shall be obliged to you to try once more to get him off.</p>
			<p>With a little gentleness and management I found means to succeed. I took the creature in my arms as one would an infant, and I confess I could not help pitying and caressing him. He was not larger than a kitten, and quite unable to help himself: its mother appeared to us to be at least as tall as Fritz.</p>
			<p>What shall I do with thee, poor orphan? cried I, and how in our state of necessity shall I be able to maintain thee? We have already more mouths to fill, than food to put into them, and our workmen are too young to afford us soon much hope from their exertions.</p>
			<p>Father, cried Fritz, do let me have this little animal in my own keeping. I will take the greatest care of him; I will give him all my share of the milk of the coconuts till we get our cows and goats; and who knows? his monkey instinct may one day assist us in discovering some different kinds of wholesome fruits.</p>
			<p>I have not the least objection, answered I. You have conducted yourself throughout this tragicomic adventure as a lad of courage and sensibility, and I am well satisfied with every circumstance of your behaviour. It is therefore but just that the little dependent should be given up to your management and discretion; much will depend on your manner of educating him; by and by we shall see whether he will be fittest to aid us with his intelligence, or to injure us by his malice; in this last case we shall have nothing to do but to get rid of him.</p>
			<p>While Fritz and I were conversing on the subject of his adoption of the young monkey, Turk was employed in taking his fill of the remains of its unfortunate mother. Fritz would have driven him away from so cannibal-like a repast: but besides the difficulty of restraining him, we had to consider, that we might ourselves be in danger from the pressing hunger of so powerful an animal; all the food we had before given him in the day seeming to be nothing for his voracious and unbounded appetite.</p>
			<p>We now again thought of resuming our journey, and accordingly left the ferocious Turk to pursue his sanguinary dispositions; the little orphan jumped again on the shoulder of his protector, while I on my part relieved my boy of the bundle of canes. Scarcely had we proceeded a quarter of a league when Turk overtook us full gallop. Fritz and I received him without the usual marks of kindness, and reproached him with the cruel action he had committed, as if he could feel, and understand us; but he showed no sign of giving himself any concern about the matter, following quietly behind Fritz with an air of cool and perfect satisfaction. The young monkey appeared uneasy, from seeing him so near, and passed round and fixed himself on his protector’s bosom, who did not long bear with so great an inconvenience without having recourse to his invention for a remedy. He tied some string round Turk’s body in such a way, as to admit of the monkey’s being fastened on his back with it, and then in a tone really pathetic addressed the dog as follows: Now, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Turk, since it was you who had the cruelty to destroy the mother, it is for you to take every care of her child. At first the dog was restive and resisted; but by degrees, partly by menaces and partly by caresses, we succeeded in gaining his good will, and he quietly consented to carry the little burden; and the young monkey, who also had made some difficulties, at length found himself perfectly accommodated. Fritz put another string round Turk’s neck, by which he might lead him, a precaution he used to prevent him from going out of sight. I must needs confess, we had not the sin of too great haste to answer for, so that I had sufficient leisure for amusing myself with the idea, that we should arrive at our home with something of the appearance of keepers of rare animals for show. I enjoyed in foresight the jubilations of our young ones when they should see the figure we made. Ah! cried Fritz, I promise you, brother Jack will draw from the occasion materials enough for future malicious jokes. Do you then, my son, said I, take your materials for a model from your admirable mother, who never fails to make allowance for the buoyant spirits so natural to youth. Your reflections on their faults, which, thanks be to heaven, are such as to do injury to none, give me no pleasure; I am aware of their existence without the aid of your observations, and I beg you will leave to me the task of correcting them.</p>
			<p>May I however observe, father, that I wish we could cure Turk of his passion for attacking living animals, and tearing them to pieces? It was, I assure you, a most frightful spectacle; the more so, that monkeys so much resemble our own species that I could scarcely convince myself he was not killing a man.</p>
			<p>There was reason enough to be disgusted with the sight, though it were only an animal you saw so treated; but, for all this, it would in our situation be dangerous to teach our dogs not to attack and kill, if they can, what unknown animals they meet with. You will see that Turk will soon regard your little monkey as a member of our family; already he is content to carry him on his back; but I assure you we must not discourage him in his fancy for attacking wild beasts. Heaven bestowed the dog on man for his safeguard and defence, and the horse the same: they may be considered as our allies against the different tribes of pernicious animals. How conspicuous is the goodness of the Almighty in the natural dispositions he has bestowed on these useful creatures, who at all times discover so much affection for man, and so easily submit to the slavery of serving him! A man on horseback, and accompanied by a troop of well conditioned dogs, has no occasion to fear any species of wild beasts, not even the lion, nor the hyena; he may even baffle the voracious rapidity of the tiger.</p>
			<p>I see clearly how fortunate we are in the possession of two such creatures, who feel the strongest attachment to our persons and are ever ready to protect us from danger; but what a pity it was that the horses we had on board should have died during our voyage, and have left us with only an ass!</p>
			<p>Let us take care how we treat even our ass with disdain. I wish we had him safe on land. Fortunately he is a powerful creature of his species, and not of the common kind. We may train him to do us the same services as are performed by the horse; and it is not improbable that he will even improve under our care, and from the excellent pasture he will find in this climate.</p>
			<p>In such conversation as this, on subjects equally interesting to both, we forgot the length of our journey, and soon found ourselves on the bank of the river and near our family before we were aware. Ponto on the other side announced our approach by a violent barking, and Turk replied so heartily, that his motions disturbed the tranquillity of his little burden, who, in his fright, jumped the length of his string from his back to Fritz’s shoulder, which he could not afterwards be prevailed upon to leave. Turk, who began to be well acquainted with the country, ran off to meet his companion and announce our arrival; and shortly after our much-loved family appeared in sight on the opposite shore, exhibiting every demonstration of unbounded joy at our safe return. They advanced along by the course of the river, till they on one side, and we on the other, had reached the place where we had crossed it in the morning. We repassed it again in safety, and threw ourselves into each other’s arms. Scarcely had the young ones joined their brother, than they again began their joyful exclamations: A monkey, a live monkey! Papa, mamma, a live monkey! Oh, how delightful! how happy shall we be! How did you catch him? What a droll face he has! He is very ugly, said little Francis, half afraid to touch him. He is much prettier than you, retorted Jack; only see, he is laughing; I wish I could see him eat. Ah! if we had but some coconut! said Ernest; could you not find any? Are they nice? Have you brought me any milk of almonds? said Francis. Have you met with any unfortunate adventure? asked my wife. In this manner, questions and exclamations succeeded to each other without interval, and with such rapidity as not to leave us time to answer them.</p>
			<p>At length when all became a little tranquil I answered them thus: Most happy am I to return to you again, my best beloved, and God be praised! without having encountered any new misfortune. We have even the pleasure of presenting you with many valuable acquisitions; but in the object nearest my heart, the discovering what has become of our ship-companions, or of any individual of them, we have entirely failed.</p>
			<p>Since it pleases God that it should be so, said my wife, let us endeavour to be content, and let us be grateful to him for having saved us from their unhappy fate, and for having once more brought us all together: I have laboured this day under an unusual uneasiness about your safety, and imagined a thousand evils that might beset you. The day appeared an age. But now I see you once more safe and well, I trust I shall again resume my tranquillity. But put down your burdens; we will all help you; for though we have not, I assure you, spent the day in idleness, we are less fatigued than you. Quick then, my boys, and help to take the loads from your father and your brother. Now then sit down and tell us your adventures.</p>
			<p>Jack received my gun, Ernest the coconuts, Francis the gourd-rinds, and my wife my game-bag. Fritz distributed the sugarcanes, and put his monkey on the back of Turk, to the great amusement of the children, at the same time begging Ernest to relieve him of his gun. But Ernest, ever careful of his own accommodation, assured him, that the large heavy bowls with which he was loaded, were the most he had strength to carry. His mother, a little too indulgent to his lazy humour, relieved him of them: and thus we proceeded all together to our tent.</p>
			<p>Fritz whispered to me, that if Ernest had known what the large heavy bowls were, he would not so readily have parted with them. Then turning to his brother, Why, Ernest, cried he, do you know that these bowls are coconuts, your dear much-desired coconuts, and each containing the sweet nice milk you have so much wished to taste?</p>
			<p>Are they indeed? are they really and truly coconuts, brother? Oh! mamma, return them to me quickly; I will carry them if you please, and I can carry the gun too without finding it heavy.</p>
			<p>No, no, Ernest, answered his mother, I do not intend to be teased with hearing any more of your heavy sighs and moanings about your being fatigued; for I am certain you would begin again before we had gone a hundred paces. Ernest would willingly have asked his mother to give him the coconuts and take the gun herself, but this he dared not do:⁠—I have only, said he, to get rid of these sticks, and carry the gun in my hand.</p>
			<p>I would advise you not to give up the sticks either, said Fritz drily; I know you will be sorry if you do; and for this good reason⁠—the sticks are sugarcanes!</p>
			<p>Sugarcanes! cried he. Sugarcanes! exclaimed they all; and, surrounding Fritz, made him give them full instructions on the sublime art of sucking sugarcanes.</p>
			<p>My wife also, who had always entertained a high respect for the article of sugar in her household management, was perfectly astonished, and earnestly entreated we would explain to her all about it. I instantly complied with her request, giving her every explanation and particular respecting our journey, and our new acquisitions, which I alternately exhibited for her inspection. No one of them afforded her more pleasure than the plates and dishes, because to persons of decent habits they were articles of indispensable necessity. We now adjourned to our little kitchen, and with great delight observed the preparations going forward in it for an excellent repast. On one side of the fire we saw a turnspit, which my wife had contrived by driving two forked pieces of wood into the ground, and placing a long even stick sharpened at one end across them. By this invention she was enabled to roast different kinds of fish, or other food, with the help of little Francis, who was entrusted with the care of turning it round from time to time. On the occasion of our return she had prepared us the treat of a goose, the fat of which ran down into some oyster-shells placed there to serve the purpose of a dripping-pan. And besides a dish of fish, which the little ones had caught, the iron pot was upon the fire, provided with a good soup, the agreeable odour of which increased our appetite. By the side of these most exhilarating preparations, stood one of the casks which we had recovered from the waves, the head of which my wife had knocked out, so that it exposed to our view a cargo of the finest sort of Dutch cheeses contained in round tins. All this display was made to excite the appetite of the two travellers, who had fared but scantily during the day; and I must needs observe, that the whole was very little like such a dinner as one should expect to see on a desert island.</p>
			<p>You indeed but barely did yourselves justice, my dear ones, in saying that you had not been idle during our absence, cried I. I see before me what must have cost you considerable labour. I am however a little sorry that you have killed one of our geese so soon; we must employ the utmost economy in the use of our poultry, which may be of service in a time of need.</p>
			<p>Do not make yourself uneasy on this subject, said my wife; for what you see is not one of our geese, but a kind of wild bird, and is the booty of your son Ernest, who calls him by a singular name, and assures me that it is good to eat.</p>
			<p>Yes, father, I believe that the bird which I have caught is a kind of penguin, or we might distinguish him by the surname of Stupid. He showed himself to be a bird so destitute, of even the least degree of intelligence, that I killed him with a single blow with my stick.</p>
			<p>What is the form of his feet, and of his beak? asked I.</p>
			<p>His feet were formed for swimming; in other words, he was what is called web-footed; the beak was long, small, and a little curved downwards: I have preserved his head and neck, that you might examine it yourself; it reminds me exactly of the penguin, described as so stupid a bird in my book of natural history.</p>
			<p>You now then perceive, my son, of what use it is to read, and to extend our knowledge, particularly on subjects of natural history and the productions of nature in general; by this study and knowledge, we are enabled to recognise at the moment, the objects which chance throws in our way, whether we have seen them before or not. Tell me now what birds there are with feet formed like those which you have just described, and which are so formed to enable the creature to strike the water and prevent himself from sinking.</p>
			<p>There are the man of war bird, cormorants, and pelicans, father.</p>
			<p>By what mark do you distinguish the kind to which you just now said the penguin or Stupid belonged?</p>
			<p>Upon my word, interrupted his mother, I must give the answer myself: and it will consist of a petition, that you will take some other time for your catechism on birds: when once you have begun on any particular subject, one never sees the end of it. Now to my mind there is a time for everything; Ernest killed the bird, and was able to tell his kind; we on our parts shall eat him; what more therefore is necessary? Do you not see that the poor child is thinking all the while of his coconuts? Let me intercede on his behalf, and prevail upon you to let him have the pleasure of examining and tasting them.</p>
			<p>Ah! thank you, my good mother; I shall be very glad if papa will consent.</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>⁠—Well, well, you have my full permission. But first you will be obliged to learn from Fritz the best manner of opening them, so as to preserve the milk: and one word more; I recommend to you not to forget the young monkey, who has no longer his mother’s milk for food.</p>
			<p><i>Jack.</i>⁠—I cannot prevail upon him to taste a bit; I have offered him everything we have.</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>⁠—It cannot well be otherwise, for he has not yet learned how to eat; you must feed him with the milk of coconuts till we can procure something more proper for him to eat.</p>
			<p><i>Jack.</i>⁠—I will give the poor little creature my share with all my heart.</p>
			<p><i>Ernest.</i>⁠—I have however the greatest desire to taste this milk myself, just to know what it is like.</p>
			<p>And so have I, said the little Francis.</p>
			<p>However, gentlemen, the monkey must live, said Jack a little maliciously.</p>
			<p>And we and our children must live too, answered their mother. Come then, the supper is ready, and the coconuts shall be for the dessert.</p>
			<p>We seated ourselves on the ground; my wife had placed each article of the repast in one of our newly manufactured dishes, the neat appearance of which exceeded all our expectations. My sons had not patience to wait, but had broken the coconuts, and already convinced themselves of their delicious flavour; and then they fell to making spoons with the fragments of the shells. The little monkey, thanks to the kind temper of Jack, had been served the first, and each amused himself with making him suck the corner of his pocket-handkerchief, dipped in the milk of the coconut. He appeared delighted with the treatment he received, and we remarked with satisfaction, that we should most likely be able to preserve him.</p>
			<p>The boys were preparing to break some more of the nuts with the hatchet, after having drawn out the milk through the three little holes which I have already observed are found near the stalk of the coconut, and which are guarded by a soft substance which may easily be pierced. I pronounced the word <em>halt</em>, and bade them bring me a saw; the thought struck me, that by dividing the nuts carefully with this instrument, the two halves when emptied, would remain with the form of some well looking teacups or basins already made to our hands. Jack, who was on every occasion the most active, brought me a saw. I performed my undertaking in the best manner I could, and in a short time each of us was provided with a convenient receptacle for food. Accordingly my wife put the share of soup which belonged to each, into those basins or vessels. The excellent creature appeared delighted that we should no longer be under the necessity, as before, of scalding our fingers by dipping into the pot; and I firmly believe, that never did the most magnificent service of china occasion half the pleasure to its possessor, as our utensils, manufactured by our own hands from gourds and coconuts, excited in the kind heart of my wife. Fritz asked me if he might not invite our company to taste his fine champagne, which he said would not fail to make us all the merrier.</p>
			<p>I have not the least objection, answered I, but remember to taste it yourself, before you serve it to your guests.</p>
			<p>He ran to draw out the stopple and to taste it.⁠ ⁠… How unfortunate! said he, it is already turned to vinegar.</p>
			<p>What is it? vinegar, did you say? exclaimed my wife. How lucky! it will make the most delicious sauce for our bird, mixed with the fat which has fallen from it in roasting, and will be as good a relish as a salad. No sooner said than done. This vinegar produced from coconut proved a most agreeable corrective of the wild and fishy flavour of the penguin, and without which I am afraid we should have found it not very palatable. The same sauce considerably improved our dish of fish also. Each boasted most of what he himself had been the means of procuring; it was Jack and Francis who had caught the fish in one of the shallows, while Ernest was employed with very little trouble to himself in securing his penguin <em>the stupid</em>. My poor wife had herself performed the most difficult task of all, that of rolling the cask of Dutch cheeses into the kitchen, and then knocking out its head. But if it was she who had most exerted herself, it was she also who received the highest commendations; for one and all agreed, that nothing we had tasted since we left the ship, was half so agreeable to our appetites as this cheese which she served for our dessert.</p>
			<p>By the time we had finished our meal, the sun was retiring from our view; and recollecting how quickly the night would fall upon us, we were in the greatest haste to regain our place of rest. My wife had considerately procured for us a tenfold quantity of dry grass, which she had spread in the tent, so that we anticipated with joy the prospect which was now afforded, of stretching our limbs on a substance somewhat approaching to the quality of mattresses, while, the night before, our bodies seemed to touch the ground. Our whole flock of fowls placed themselves as they had done the preceding evening; we said our prayers, and, with an improved serenity of mind, lay down in the tent, taking the young monkey with us, who was become the little favourite of all. Fritz and Jack contended for a short time which should enjoy the honour of his company for the night; and it was at last decided that he should be laid between them; after which, each would have a hand in covering him carefully, that he might not catch cold. We now all lay down upon the grass, in the order of the night before, myself remaining last to fasten the sailcloth in front of the tent; when heartily fatigued by the exertions of the day, I as well as the rest soon fell into a profound and refreshing sleep.</p>
			<p>But I had not long enjoyed this pleasing state, when I was awakened by the motion of the fowls on the ridge of the tent, and by a violent barking of our vigilant safeguards, the dogs. I rushed out instantly; my wife and Fritz, who had also been alarmed by the noise, followed my example: we each took a gun, and sallied forth to their assistance. Shall you, my dearest, have the courage to fire, if it should be necessary? said I to my wife.</p>
			<p>Most certainly, said she, if, as you say, it should be necessary. I can depend upon myself for daring to do whatever can be the means of preservation to our dear children. At the same time it would perhaps be better that I should leave to you the task of firing, while I can undertake to load your guns, and to hand them to you as fast as you may want them.</p>
			<p>Best of all, said I; so let us not lose a moment in examining what enemy it is we have to deal with. Our dogs continued barking with the same violence, and at intervals even howled. We had not proceeded many steps from the tent, when, to our great astonishment, we perceived by the light of the moon a terrible combat. At least a dozen of jackalls had surrounded our brave dogs, who defended themselves with an almost unexampled courage. Already the fierce champions had laid three or four of their adversaries on the ground, while those which remained began to make a timid kind of noise, as if imploring pity and forbearance. Meanwhile they did not the less endeavour to entangle and surprise the dogs, when thrown off their guard, and thus secure themselves the advantage. But our watchful combatants were not so easily to be deceived; they took good care not to let the enemy approach them too nearly.</p>
			<p>I, for my part, apprehended something much worse than jackalls. We shall soon manage to set these gentlemen at rest, said I. Let us fire both together, my boy; but let us take care how we aim, for fear of killing the dogs; your mother shall give us the word of command; mind how you fire, that you may not miss, and I shall do the same. We fired, and two of the intruders fell instantly dead upon the sands. The others made their escape; but we perceived it was with great difficulty, in consequence, no doubt, of being wounded. Turk and Ponto afterwards pursued them, and put the finishing stroke to what we had begun; and thus the battle ended: but the dogs, true Caribees by nature, made a hearty meal on the flesh of their fallen enemies. Their doing this was a proof of the keen hunger they experienced; for dogs do not readily feed on foxes, and the jackall is a more fierce and mischievous species of the fox, than the animal known by that name in Europe. My wife, seeing that all was now quiet, entreated us to lie down again and finish our night’s sleep; but Fritz asked my permission to let him first drag the jackall he had killed, towards the tent, that he might be able to exhibit him the next morning to his brothers. Having obtained my consent, he ran to fetch him, and, with great difficulty, succeeded in his plan, the animal being of the size of a large dog. I however observed to Fritz, that if Turk and Ponto were still hungry, we ought to give them this last jackall in addition, as a recompense for their courageous behaviour.</p>
			<p>We had now done with this affair. The body of the jackall was left on the rock, by the side of the tent, in which were the little sleepers, who had not once awaked during the whole of the scene which had been passing. Having therefore nothing further to prevent us, we lay down by their side till day began to break, and till the cocks, with their shrill morning salutation, awoke us both. The children being still asleep, afforded us an excellent opportunity to consult together respecting the plan we should pursue for the ensuing day.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
