<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>III: Voyage of Discovery.</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-3" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">Voyage of Discovery.</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p><span class="smcap">I was</span> awaked at the first dawn of day by the crowing of the cocks. I awoke my wife, and we consulted together as to our occupation for the day. We both agreed, that the thing of the most importance was to seek for such traces as might be found of our late ship companions, and at the same time to examine the nature of the soil on the other side of the river before we came to a determination about a fixed place of abode. My wife easily perceived that such an excursion could not be undertaken by all the members of the family; and full of confidence in the protection of Heaven, she courageously consented to my proposal of my leaving her with the three youngest boys, and proceeding myself with Fritz on a journey of discovery. I entreated her not to lose a moment in giving us our breakfast. She gave us notice that the share of each would be but small, there being no more soup prepared. What then, I asked, is become of Jack’s lobster? That he can best tell you himself, answered his mother. But now pray step and awake the boys, while I make a fire and put on some water.</p>
			<p>The children were soon roused; even our slothful Ernest submitted to the hard fate of rising so early in the morning. When I asked Jack for his lobster, he ran and fetched it from a cleft in the rock in which he had carefully concealed it. I was determined, said he, that the dogs should not treat my lobster as they did the agouti, for I knew them for a sort of gentlemen to whom nothing comes amiss. I am glad to see, son Jack, said I, that that giddy head upon your shoulders can be prevailed upon to reflect. Happy is he who knows how to profit in the misfortunes of others, says the proverb. But will you not kindly give Fritz the great claw which bit your leg (though I promised it to you) to carry with him for his dinner on our journey?</p>
			<p>What journey? asked all the boys at once. Ah! we will go too: a journey⁠—a journey⁠—repeated they, clapping their hands and jumping round me like little kids. For this time, said I, it is impossible for all of you to go; we know not yet what we are to set about, nor whither we are going. Your eldest brother and myself shall be better able to defend ourselves in any danger without you; besides, that with so many persons we could proceed but slowly. You will then all three remain with your mother in this place, which appears to be one of perfect safety, and you shall keep Ponto to be your guard, while we will take Turk with us. With such a protector, and a gun well loaded, who shall dare treat us with disrespect? Fritz, make haste and tie up Ponto, that he may not follow us; and have your eye on Turk, that he may be at hand to accompany us, and get the guns ready.</p>
			<p>At the word guns the colour rose in the cheeks of my poor boy. His gun was so curved as to be of no use; he took it up and tried in vain to straighten it; I let him alone for a short time; but at length I gave him leave to take another, perceiving with pleasure that the vexation had produced a proper feeling in his mind. A moment after, he attempted to lay hold of Ponto to tie him up; but the dog, recollecting the blows he had so lately received, began to snarl, and would not go near him. Turk behaved the same, and I found it necessary to call with my own voice to induce them to approach us. Fritz then in tears entreated for some biscuit of his mother, declaring that he would willingly go without his breakfast to make his peace with the dogs; he accordingly carried them some biscuit, stroked and caressed them, and in every motion seemed to ask their pardon. As of all animals, without excepting man, the dog is least addicted to revenge, and at the same time is the most sensible of kind usage, Ponto instantly relented, and began to lick the hands which fed him; but Turk, who was of a more fierce and independent temper, still held off, and seemed to feel a want of confidence in Fritz’s advances. Give him a claw of my lobster, cried Jack, for I mean to give it all to you for your journey.</p>
			<p>I cannot think why you should give it all, said Ernest, for you need not be uneasy about their journey. Like Robinson Crusoe they will be sure enough to find some coconuts, which they will like much better than your miserable lobster: only think, a fine round nut, Jack, as big as my head, and with at least a teacup full of delicious sweet milk in it!</p>
			<p>Oh! brother Fritz, pray do bring me some, said the little Francis.</p>
			<p>We now prepared for our departure: we took each a bag for game, and a hatchet; I put a pair of pistols in the leather band round Fritz’s waist in addition to the gun, and provided myself with the same articles, not forgetting a stock of biscuit and a flask of fresh river water. My wife now called us to breakfast, when all attacked the lobster; but its flesh proved so hard, that there was a great deal left when our meal was finished, and we packed it for our journey without further regret from anyone. The sea-lobster is an animal of considerable size, and its flesh much more nutritious, but much less delicate, than the common lobster.</p>
			<p>Fritz urged me to set out before the excessive heat came on. With all my heart, said I, but we have forgotten one thing of importance. What is that? asked Fritz looking round him; I see nothing else to do but to take our leave of my mother and my brothers. I know what it is, said Ernest, we have not said our prayers this morning.</p>
			<p>That is the very thing, my dear boy, said I. We are too apt to forget God, the parent of all, for the cares of this world; and yet never had we so much need of his support and protection as in our present situation, and particularly at the moment of undertaking a journey to an unknown soil.</p>
			<p>Upon this, our little pickle Jack began to imitate the sound of church-bells, and to cry Bome! bome! bidi bome, bidiman, bome, To prayers, to prayers, bome, bome.⁠—Thoughtless boy! cried I with a look of displeasure, will you then never learn that there is a sacredness in devotion, that, in a well disposed mind, banishes for the time every thought of levity or amusement? Recollect yourself, and let this be the last time you force from me a reproof on a subject of so grave a nature.</p>
			<p>In about an hour we had completed all that was necessary to be done previous to our departure, and were ready to set out. I had loaded the guns we left behind, and I now enjoined my wife to keep by day as near the boat as possible, which in case of danger was the best and most speedy means of escape. My next concern was to shorten the moment of separation, judging by my own heart of the emotion of my dear wife; for it was impossible we could mutually be without the most painful apprehension, as to what new misfortune might occur on either side during the interval. We all melted into tears;⁠—I seized this instant for drawing Fritz away, and in a few moments the sobs and often repeated adieus of those we left behind, were drowned in the noise of the waves which we were approaching on our way, and which now turned our thoughts upon ourselves and the immediate object of our journey.</p>
			<p>The river we were about to pass, was on each side so steep as to be inaccessible, except by one narrow slip near the mouth, on one side, and from whence we had already drawn our supply of fresh water: but there was no means of effecting a passage across from this place, the opposite shore being an unbroken line of sharp, high, perpendicular rocks. We therefore walked on, following the course of the river till we arrived at an assemblage of rocks at which the stream formed a cascade: a few paces beyond, we observed some large fragments of rock which had fallen into the bed of the river; by stepping upon these, and making now and then some hazardous leaps, we at length contrived to reach to the other side. We had proceeded a short way along the rock we ascended in landing, forcing ourselves a passage through overgrown grass mixed with plants, and rendered more capable of resistance by being half dried up by the sun. Perceiving however, that walking on this kind of surface, joined to the heat, would soon exhaust our strength, we looked for a path by which we might descend and proceed along the river, in which direction we hoped to meet with fewer obstacles, and perhaps might discover traces of the boats and of our ship companions.</p>
			<p>When we had walked about a hundred paces, we heard a loud noise behind us as if we were pursued, and perceived a rustling motion in the grass, which was almost as tall as ourselves. I confess I was a good deal alarmed, thinking that it was probably occasioned by some frightful serpent, a tiger, or other ferocious animal, which might instantly devour us. But I was well satisfied with the courage of Fritz, who, instead of being frightened and running away, stood still and firm to face the danger; the only motion he made being that of seeing that his piece was fit to be discharged, and turning himself to front the spot from whence the noise proceeded. Our alarm however was of short duration; for what was our joy on seeing rush out, not an enemy, but our faithful Turk whom in the distress of the parting scene we had quite forgotten, and whom no doubt our anxious relatives had sent on to us! We received the poor fellow with lively joy, and did not fail to commend both the bravery and discretion of my son, in not yielding to even a rational alarm, and for waiting till he was sure of the object before he resolved to fire: had he done otherwise, he might have destroyed a creature formed to afford us various kinds of aid, and to contribute by the kindness of his temper to the pleasures of our domestic scene. Observe, my dear boy, said I, to what dangers the tumult of the passions exposes us: the anger which overpowered you yesterday, and the terror natural to the occasion we have this moment witnessed, if you had unfortunately given way to it, might either of them have produced for us an irretrievable misfortune.</p>
			<p>Fritz assured me he was sensible of truth and importance of my remarks; that he would watch constantly over the defects of his temper: and then he fell to caressing the faithful and interesting animal.</p>
			<p>Conversing on such subjects as these, we pursued our way. On our left was the sea, and on our right, at the distance of half a league, the continuation of the ridge of rocks, which extended from the place of our debarkation in a direction nearly parallel with the shore, the summit everywhere adorned with a fresh verdure and a great variety of trees; and the space between, partly covered with tall grass and partly with small clumps of bushes, which on one side extended to the rocks, and on the other to the sea. We were careful to proceed in a course as near the shore as possible, fixing our eyes rather upon its smooth expanse than upon the land, at every instant in hopes to see something of the boats. We did not however wholly neglect the shore, where we looked about in all directions for the objects of our search: but our endeavours were all in vain; no sign appeared of their having been near the spot.</p>
			<p>Fritz proposed to fire his gun from time to time, suggesting that, should they be anywhere concealed near us, they might thus be led to know of our pursuit.</p>
			<p>This would be vastly well, answered I, if you could contrive for our friends to hear the report of the gun, and not the savages, who are most likely not far distant, and who would be induced by the alarm, to watch and surprise us. I am thinking, father, interrupted Fritz, that there is no good reason why we should give ourselves so much trouble and uneasiness about persons who abandoned us so cruelly, and thought only of their own safety.</p>
			<p>There is not only one good reason, but many, replied I: first, we should not return evil for evil; next, it may be in their power to be of use and to assist us; and lastly, that they are most likely at this moment in the greatest want of our exertions. It was their lot to escape with nothing but their persons from the ship, if indeed they are still alive while we had the good fortune to secure provisions enough for present subsistence to a share of which they are as fully entitled as ourselves.</p>
			<p>But, father, while we are wandering here and losing our time almost without a hope of benefit to them, might we not better employ ourselves in returning to the vessel and saving the lives of the animals on board?</p>
			<p>When a variety of duties present themselves for our choice, we should always give the preference to that which can confer the most solid advantage. The saving of the life of a man, is a more exalted action than to be employed in contributing to the further comfort of some quadrupeds, whom we have already supplied with food for several days longer, particularly as the sea is in so calm a state, that we need entertain no apprehension that the ship will be sunk or go entirely to pieces just at present.</p>
			<p>My son made no reply to what I said, and we each seemed by mutual silent consent to take a few moments for reflection.</p>
			<p>When we had gone about two leagues, we entered a wood situated a little further from the sea: here we threw ourselves on the ground, and under the shade of a tree, by the side of a clear running stream, took out some provisions and refreshed ourselves. We heard on every side around us, the chirping, singing, and the motion of unknown birds among the leaves, and which in reality were more attractive by their splendid plumage than by any charm of note. Fritz assured me that between the branches of the bushes he saw some animals resembling apes: this indeed was further confirmed by the restless movements we had observed in Turk, who began to smell about him, and to bark so loud that the wood resounded with the noise. Fritz stole softly about to be sure, and raising his head to spy into the branches above his height, he stumbled on a small round body which lay on the ground: he took it up and brought it to me, observing that he thought it must be the nest of some bird. What makes you of that opinion? said I. It is, I think, much more like a coconut.</p>
			<p>But I have read that there are some kinds of birds who build their nests quite round; and look, father, how the outside is crossed and twined!</p>
			<p>That is true, Fritz; but it is wrong from a single view to be so positive. Do you not perceive that what you take for straws crossed and twined by the beak of a bird, is in fact a coat of fibres formed by the hand of nature? Do you not remember to have read that the nut of a coconut shell is enclosed within a round fibrous covering, which again is surrounded by a skin of a thin and fragile texture? I see that in the one you hold in your hand, this skin has been destroyed by time, and this is the reason why the twisted fibres (or inner covering) are so apparent; but now let us break the shell, and you will see the nut inside.</p>
			<p>We soon accomplished this; but the nut, alas, from lying on the ground had perished, and appeared but little different from a bit of dried skin, and not the least inviting to the palate.</p>
			<p>Fritz was much amused at this discovery. How I wish Ernest could have been here! cried he. How he envied me the fine large coconuts I was to find, and the whole tea cup full of sweet delicious milk, which was to spring out upon me from the inside! But, father, I myself believed that the coconut contained a sweet refreshing liquid, a little like the juice of almonds; travellers surely tell untruths!</p>
			<p>Travellers certainly do sometimes tell untruths, but on the subject of the coconut I believe them to be innocent. The coconut is well known to contain the liquid you describe, just before they are in a state of ripeness. It is the same with our European nuts, with only the difference of quantity; and the circumstance is common to both, that as the nut ripens, the milk diminishes, by thickening and becoming the same substance as the nut. If you put a ripe nut a little way under the earth in a good soil, the kernel will shoot and burst the shell; but if it remain above ground, or in a place that does not suit its nature, the principle of vegetation is extinguished by internal fermentation, and the nut perishes as you have seen.</p>
			<p>I am now surprised that this principle is not extinguished in every nut; for the shell is so hard, it seems impossible for a softer substance to break it.</p>
			<p>The peach stone is no less hard: the kernel notwithstanding never fails to break it, if it is placed in a well nurtured soil.</p>
			<p>Now I begin to understand. The peach stone is divided into two parts like a muscle-shell; it has a kind of seam round it, which separates of itself when the kernel is swelled by moisture:⁠—but the coconut in my hand is not so divided, and I cannot conceive of its separating.</p>
			<p>I grant that the coconut is differently formed; but you may see by the fragments you have just thrown on the ground, that nature has in another manner stepped in to its assistance. Look near the stalk, and you will discover three round holes, which are not, like the rest of its surface, covered with a hard impenetrable shell, but are stopped by a spongy kind of matter; it is through these that the kernel shoots.</p>
			<p>I will gather all the pieces and take them to Ernest, and tell him all these particulars; I wonder what he will say about it, and how he will like the withered nut.</p>
			<p>Now the fancy of your father, my dear boy, would be to find you without so keen a relish for a bit of mischief. Joke with Ernest if you will about the withered nut; but I should like to see you heal the disappointment he will feel, by presenting him at last with a sound and perfect nut, provided we should have one to spare.</p>
			<p>After looking for some time, we had the good luck to meet with one single nut. We opened it, and finding it sound, we sat down and ate it for our dinner, by which means we were enabled to husband the provisions we had brought. The nut, it is true, was a little oily and rancid; yet, as this was not a time to be nice, we made a hearty meal, and then continued our route. We did not quit the wood, but pushed our way through it, being often obliged to cut a path through the bushes overrun by creeping plants, with our hatchet. At length we reached a plain, which afforded a more extensive prospect and a path less perplexed and intricate.</p>
			<p>We next entered a forest to the right, and soon observed in it here and there some trees of a particular species. Fritz, whose sharp eye was continually on a journey of discovery, remarked that some of them were of so very extraordinary an appearance, that he could not resist the curiosity he felt to examine them closely. O heavens! father, he next exclaimed, what a singular kind of trees, with wens growing all about their trunks! We both walked up to some of them, and I perceived, with great surprise and satisfaction, that they were of the gourd tree kind, the trunks of which bear fruit. Fritz, who had never heard of such a tree, could not conceive the meaning of what he saw, and asked me if the fruit was a sponge or a wen. We will see, I replied, if we cannot unravel the mystery. Try to get down one of them, and we will examine them minutely.</p>
			<p>I have got one, cried Fritz, and it is exactly like a gourd, only the rind is thicker and harder.</p>
			<p>It then, like the rind of that fruit, can be used for making various utensils, observed I; plates, dishes, basins, flasks. We will give it the name of the gourd tree.</p>
			<p>Fritz jumped for joy. O heavens! cried he in ecstasy, how happy my mother will be! She will no longer have the vexation, when she makes soup, of thinking that we shall all scald our fingers!</p>
			<p>What, my boy, do you think is the reason that this tree bears its fruit only on the trunk and on its topmost branches?</p>
			<p>I think it must be because the middle branches are too feeble to support such a weight.</p>
			<p>You have guessed exactly right.</p>
			<p>But are these gourds good to eat?</p>
			<p>At worst they are, I believe, harmless; but they have not a very tempting flavour. The negro savages set as much value on the rind of this fruit as on gold, for its use to them is indispensable. These rinds serve them to keep their food and drink in, and sometimes they even cook their victuals in them.</p>
			<p>Oh, father! it must be impossible to cook their victuals in them; for the heat of fire would soon consume such a substance.</p>
			<p>I did not say the rind was put upon the fire.</p>
			<p>How droll! Pray how are victuals to be cooked without fire?</p>
			<p>Nor did I say that victuals could be cooked without a fire; and my meaning was, that there is no need to put the vessel that contains the food, upon the fire.</p>
			<p>I have not the least idea of what you mean; there seems to be a miracle.</p>
			<p>So be it, my son. A little tincture of enchantment is the lot of man. When he finds himself deficient in intelligence, or is too indolent to give himself the trouble to reflect, he is driven by his weakness to ascribe to a miracle, or to witchcraft, what is, most likely, nothing but the most ordinary operation of art or nature.</p>
			<p>Well, father, I will then believe in what you tell me of these rinds.</p>
			<p>That is, you will cut the matter short, by resolving to swear on the word of another; this is an excellent method for letting your own reason lie fallow. Come, come, no such idleness; let me help you to understand this amazing phenomenon. When it is intended to dress food in one of these rinds, the process is, to cut the fruit into two equal parts, and scoop out the whole of the inside; some water is put into one of the halves, and into the water some fish, a crab, or whatever else is to be dressed; then some stones red hot, beginning with one at a time, are thrown in, which impart sufficient heat to the water to dress the food, without the smallest injury to the pot.</p>
			<p>But is not the food spoiled by ashes falling in, or by pieces of the heated stones separating in the water?</p>
			<p>Certainly it is not very easy to make fine sauces or ragouts in such a vessel; but a dressing of the meat is actually accomplished, and the negroes and savages, who are principally the persons to make use of what is thus cooked, are not very delicate: but I can imagine a tolerable remedy for even the objection you have found. The food might be enclosed in a vessel small enough to be contained in our capacious half of a gourd, and thus be cooked upon the principle so much used in chemistry, the application of a milder heat than fire. And this method of cooking has also another advantage, that the thing contained cannot adhere to the sides or bottom of the vessel.</p>
			<p>We next proceeded to the manufacture of our plates and dishes. I taught my son how to divide the gourd with a bit of string, which would cut more equally than a knife; I tied the string round the middle of the gourd as tight as possible, striking it pretty hard with the handle of my knife, and I drew tighter and tighter till the gourd fell apart, forming two regular shaped bowls or vessels; while Fritz, who had used a knife for the same operation, had entirely spoiled his gourd by the irregular strokes of his instrument. I recommended his making some spoons with the spoiled rind, as it was good for no other purpose. I, on my part, had soon completed two dishes of convenient size, and some smaller ones to serve as plates.</p>
			<p>Fritz was in the utmost astonishment at my success. I cannot imagine, father, said he, how this way of cutting the gourd could occur to you!</p>
			<p>I have read the description of such a process, replied I, in books of travels; and also, that such of the savages as have no knives, and who make a sort of twine from the bark of trees, are accustomed to use it for this kind of purpose. So you see what benefit may be derived from reading, and from afterwards reflecting on what we read.</p>
			<p>And the flasks, father; in what manner are they made?</p>
			<p>For this branch of their ingenuity they make preparation a long time beforehand. If a negro wishes to have a flask or bottle with a neck, he ties a very young gourd round in the proper place with a piece of string, of linen, bark of a tree, or anything he can get hold of; he draws this bandage so tight, that the part at liberty soon forms itself to a round shape, while the part which is confined contracts, and remains ever after narrow. By this method it is that they obtain flasks or bottles of a perfect form.</p>
			<p>Are then the bottle-shaped gourds I have seen in Europe trained by a similar preparation?</p>
			<p>No, they are not; they are of another species, and what you have seen is their natural shape.</p>
			<p>Our conversation and our labour thus went on together. Fritz had completed some plates, and was not a little proud of this achievement. Ah, how delighted my mother will be to eat upon them! cried he. But how shall we convey them to her? They will not, I fear, bear travelling well.</p>
			<p>We must leave them here on the sand for the sun to dry them thoroughly; this will be accomplished by the time of our return this way, and we can then carry them with us; but care must be taken to fill them with sand, that they may not shrink or warp in so ardent a heat. My boy did not dislike this task; for he had no great fancy to the idea of carrying such a load on our journey of further discovery. Our sumptuous service of porcelain was accordingly spread upon the shore, and abandoned to its fate.</p>
			<p>We amused ourselves as we walked along in endeavouring to fashion some spoons from the fragments of the gourd-rinds. I had the fancy to try my skill upon a piece of coconut; but I must needs confess that what we produced had not the least resemblance to those I had seen in the Museum at London, and which were shown there as the work of some of the islanders of the Southern Seas. A European without instruments must always find himself excelled in such attempts by the superior adroitness and patience of savages; in this instance too, of ourselves, we had the assistance of knives, while the savages have only sharp flat stones to work with.</p>
			<p>My attempt has been scarcely more successful than your own, I cried; and to eat soup with either your spoon or mine, we ought to have mouths extending from ear to ear.</p>
			<p>True enough, father, answered Fritz; but it is not my fault. In making mine, I took the curve of my bit of rind for a guide; if I had made it smaller, it would have been too flat, and it is still more difficult to eat with a shovel than with an oyster-shell. But I am thinking that they may serve till I have learned to improve upon my first attempt, and I am quite sure of the pleasure they will afford my mother. I imagine it pleases God sometimes to visit his creatures with distress, that they may learn to be satisfied with a little.</p>
			<p>That is an excellent remark, my boy, said I, and gives me more pleasure than a hundred crowns would do. Fritz burst into a fit of laughter. You do not rate my remark very high when you say this, father, cried he, for of what use would a hundred crowns be to you at present? If you had said a good soup or a hundred coconuts, I should be much prouder for having made it.</p>
			<p>But as it is, my son, you have a right to be proud. I am well pleased to find you are beginning to estimate things according to their real value and usefulness, instead of considering them as good or bad, like children, upon feeble views. Money is only a means of exchange in human society; but here on this solitary coast, nature is more generous than man, and asks no payment for the benefits she bestows.</p>
			<p>While these different conversations and our labours had been going on, we had not neglected the great object of our pursuit⁠—the making every practicable search for our ship-companions. But all, alas, was in vain.</p>
			<p>After a walk of about four leagues in all, we arrived at a spot where a slip of land reached far out into the sea, on which we observed a hill or rising piece of ground of considerable height. On a moment’s reflection we determined to ascend to its summit, which could not fail to give us a clear view of all adjacent parts; this would save us the fatigue of further rambles. We accordingly accomplished the design.</p>
			<p>We did not reach the top of the hill without many courageous efforts and a plentiful perspiration: but when there, it presented a magnificent scene of wild and solitary beauty, comprehending a vast extent of land and water. It was, however, in vain that we made use of our spying glass; no trace of man appeared. A highly embellished nature presented herself; and though deprived of human succour, we were in the highest degree sensible of her thousand charms. The shore, rounded by a bay of some extent, the bank of which ended in a promontory on the further side; the agreeable blue tint of its surface; the sea, gently agitated with waves, in which the rays of the sun were reflected; the woods of variegated hues and verdure, formed altogether a picture of such new and exquisite delight, that if the recollection of our unfortunate companions, already perhaps ingulfed in this very ocean, had not intervened to damp our spirits, we should have yielded to the ecstasy the scene was calculated to inspire. In reality, from this moment we began to lose the consolatory hope we had hitherto entertained, and a certain sadness stole involuntarily into our hearts. We, however, became but the more sensible of the goodness of the Divine Being in the special protection afforded us, in permitting us to find a home where there seemed to be no cause for fear of danger from without, where we had not experienced even the want of food, and where there seemed to be a prospect of future safety for us all. We had encountered no venomous or ferocious animals; and as far as our sight could yet reach, we were not threatened by the approach of savages. I remarked to Fritz that we seemed destined to a solitary life, and that it was a rich country which appeared to be allotted us for a habitation; at least our habitation it must be, unless some vessel should happen to put on shore on the same coast, and be in a condition to take us back to our native land. And God’s will be done! added I, for he knows what is best for us.</p>
			<p>Having left our native country, fixed in the intention of inhabiting some more propitious soil,<sup><a id="asterisk1text"/><a class="pginternal" href="#asterisk1">*</a></sup> it was natural to expect that we must at first encounter difficult adventures. Let us, therefore, consider our present situation as no disappointment in any essential respect. We can pursue our scheme for agriculture. We shall learn to invent arts. Our only want is numbers.</p>
			<p>As for me, answered Fritz, I care but little about being so few of us. If I have the happiness of seeing you and my mother well and satisfied, I shall not give myself much uneasiness about those wicked unkind ship companions of ours.</p>
			<p>Do not say that, my boy; they were not all bad people; and the greater part of them would have become better men here, because they would not have been exposed to the attacks of seduction. Social intercourse, common interests, united exertions, mutual services and counsels, together with the reflections which would have grown in such a state as this, are agents capable of powerfully contributing to the well-being of the individual, and to a happy and successful industry.</p>
			<p>We, however, of ourselves, observed Fritz, form a larger society than was the lot of Adam before he had children; and as we grow older, we will perform all the necessary labour, while you and my mother enjoy a serene repose.</p>
			<p>Your assurances are as kind as I can desire, and they encourage me to struggle with what hardships may present themselves. Who can foresee in what manner it may be the will of Heaven to dispose of us? In times of old, God said to one of his chosen: “I will cause a great nation to descend from thy loins.”</p>
			<p>And why may not we too become patriarchs, if it please God to continue our lives?</p>
			<p>Why not? you ask⁠—and I have not now time to answer. But come along, my young patriarch, and let us find a shady spot, that we may not be consumed with the intensity of the sun’s heat before the patriarchal condition can be conferred upon us. Look yonder at that inviting wood: let us hasten thither to take a little rest, then eat our dinner, and return to our dear expecting family.</p>
			<p>We descended from the hill, and having regained the shore, we made our way to the wood of palms, which I had just pointed out to Fritz; but not without considerable difficulty, for our path lay through a quantity of reeds, entwined with other plants, which greatly obstructed our march. We advanced slowly and cautiously, fearing at every step we might receive a mortal bite from some serpent that might be concealed among them. We made Turk go before us, to give us timely notice of anything dangerous. I also cut myself a stalk of the reeds of uncommon length and thickness, the better to defend myself against an enemy that might attack me from the ground. It was not without astonishment that I perceived a glutinous kind of sap proceed from the divided end of the stalk. Prompted by curiosity, I tasted the sap, and found it sweet and of an agreeable flavour, so that not a doubt remained in my mind that we were passing through a fine plantation of sugarcanes. I again applied the cane to my lips, and sucked it for some moments, and soon after felt myself singularly refreshed and strengthened from its use. I determined not to tell Fritz immediately of the fortunate discovery I had made, preferring that he should find the pleasure out for himself. As he was at some distance on before, I called out to him to cut a reed for his defence. This he instantly did, and, without any remark, used it simply for a stick, striking lustily with it on all sides to clear a passage. This motion occasioned the sap to run out abundantly upon his hand, and he stopped to examine so strange a circumstance. He lifted it up, and still a larger quantity escaped. He now tasted what was on his fingers. Oh! then for the exclamations. Father, father, I have found some sugar!⁠—some syrup! I have a sugarcane in my hand! Run quickly, father! We were soon together, jointly partaking of the pleasure we had in store for his dear mother and the younger brothers. In the meantime Fritz eagerly devoured the single cane he had cut, till his relish for it was appeased. I thought this a profitable moment to say a word or two about excesses, of the wisdom of husbanding even our lawful pleasures, and of the advantages of moderation in even our most rational enjoyments.</p>
			<p>But I was so thirsty, and the sap was so delicious!</p>
			<p>Your excuse is like that of the drunkard, who tells you he drinks immoderately because he is thirsty, and because wine has a pleasant flavour; while, however good the excuse, it does not protect the person from being deprived of his reason.</p>
			<p>Well, father, I will observe. But I will take home a good provision of sugarcanes, however. I shall only just taste of them once or twice as I walk along. But it will be so delightful to regale my mother and my little brothers with them!</p>
			<p>I have not the least objection; but do not take too heavy a load, for recollect you have other things to carry, and we have yet far to go.</p>
			<p>Counsel was given in vain. He persisted in cutting at least a dozen of the largest canes, tore off their leaves, tied them together, and, putting them under his arm, dragged them as well as he was able through thick and thin to the end of the plantation. We arrived without accident at the wood of palms, which we entered in search of a place of shade, where we might stretch our limbs on the ground, and finish our repast. We were scarcely settled, when suddenly a great number of large monkeys, terrified by the sight of us and the barking of Turk, stole so nimbly, and yet so quietly, up the trees, that we scarcely perceived them till they had reached the topmost parts. From this height they fixed their eyes upon us, grinding their teeth, making most horrible grimaces, and saluting us with frightful screams of hostile import. I observed that the trees were palms, bearing coconuts, and I instantly conceived the hope of obtaining some of this fruit in an unripe and milky state, through the monkeys. Fritz, on his part, prepared to shoot at them instantly. He threw his burdens on the ground, and it was with difficulty I could prevent him from firing, by pulling his arm in another direction. What are you going to do, said I, in this youthful ardour of yours? What use or what pleasure can it be to you to destroy one of these monkeys?</p>
			<p>Ah, father, why did you not let me kill him? Monkeys are such malicious, mischievous animals! Look how they raise their backs in derision of us!</p>
			<p>And is it possible that this can excite your vengeance, my most reasonable <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fritz? To say the truth, I am not myself a patron of the race of monkeys, who, as you say, are naturally prone to be malicious. But as long as an animal does us no injury, or that his death can in no shape be useful in preserving our own lives, we have no right to destroy it, and still less to torment it for our amusement, or from an insensate desire of revenge.</p>
			<p>We could as easily roast a monkey as any kind of game.</p>
			<p>Many thanks for the hint! A fine repast you would have provided us! Thanks to our stars, too, we are each too heavily loaded to have carried the dead body to our kitchen, and I shrewdly suspect that it would not have found the way thither of its own accord. Does not your large bundle of sugarcanes convince you that I speak the truth? But the living monkeys we may perhaps find means to make contribute to our service.⁠—See what I am going to do;⁠—but step aside, for fear of your head. If I succeed, the monkeys will furnish us with plenty of our much desired coconuts.</p>
			<p>I now began to throw some stones at the monkeys; and though I could not make them reach to half of the height at which they had taken refuge, they showed every mark of excessive anger. With their accustomed habit of imitation, they furiously tore off, nut by nut, all that grew upon the branches near them, to hurl them down upon us; so that it was with difficulty we avoided the blows; and in a short time a large quantity of coconuts lay on the ground round us. Fritz laughed heartily at the excellent success of our stratagem; and as the shower of coconuts began to subside, we set about collecting them. We chose a place where we could repose at our ease, to regale ourselves on this rich harvest. We opened the shells with a hatchet, but not without having first enjoyed the sucking of some of the milk through the three small holes, round which we found it easy to insert a knife, and let the milk escape. The milk of the coconut has not in reality a very pleasant flavour; but it is excellent for quenching violent thirst. What we liked best, was a kind of solid cream which adheres to the shell, and which we scraped off with our spoons. We mixed with it a little of the sap of our sugarcanes, and it made a delicious repast; while Turk obtained for his share, what remained of the sea-lobster, which we now regarded with disdain, and to which we added a small quantity of biscuit. All this, however, was insufficient to satisfy the hunger of so large an animal, and he sought about for bits of the sugarcanes and of the coconuts.</p>
			<p>Our meal being finished, we prepared to leave the place. I tied together such of the coconuts as had retained the stalks, and threw them across my shoulder. Fritz resumed his bundle of sugarcanes. We divided the rest of the things between us, and continued our way towards home.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
