<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>V: Return to the Wreck.</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-5" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">Return to the Wreck.</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p><span class="smcap">I broke</span> a silence of some moments, with observing to my wife, that I could not conquer my alarm at the view of so many cares and such a variety of exertions to be made! In the first place, a journey to the vessel. This is of absolute necessity; at least, if we would not be deprived of the cattle and various other useful things, all of which from moment to moment we ran the risk of losing, by the first approach of a heavy sea. On the other hand, there are so many things to think of, and so much exertion is to be made, for the comfort of all in this desert spot! What ought we to resolve upon? For example⁠—is it not, above all, necessary to contrive a better kind of habitation, and also the means of procuring a more secure retreat from wild beasts, for ourselves, and some separate place of accommodation for our provisions? I own I am at a loss what to begin upon first.</p>
			<p>All will fall into the right order by degrees, observed my wife; patience and regularity in our plans will go as far as actual labour. I cannot, I confess, help shuddering at the thought of this voyage to the vessel; but if you judge it to be of absolute necessity, it appears to me that it cannot be undertaken too soon. In the meanwhile, nothing that is immediately under my own care shall stand still, I promise you. Let us not be over anxious about the morrow; sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. These were the words of the great and true friend of mankind, and let us use so wise a counsel for our own benefit.</p>
			<p>I will follow your advice, said I, and without further loss of time. You shall stay here with the three youngest boys; and Fritz, being so much stronger and more intelligent than the others, shall accompany me in the undertaking.</p>
			<p>At this moment I started from my bed, crying out loudly and briskly: Get up, children, get up; it is almost light, and we have some important projects for today; it would be a shame to suffer the sun to find us still sleeping, we who are to be the founders of a new colony!</p>
			<p>At these words Fritz sprang nimbly out of the tent, while his little brothers began to gape and rub their eyes, to get rid of their sleepiness. Fritz ran to visit his jackall, which during the night had become cold and perfectly stiff. He fixed him upon his legs, and placed him to look like a sentinel at the entrance of the tent, joyously expecting the wonder and exclamations of his little brothers at so singular and unexpected an appearance. But no sooner had the dogs caught a sight of him, than they began a horrible barking, and set themselves in motion to fall upon him instantly, thinking he was alive. Fritz had enough to do to restrain them, and succeeded only by dint of coaxing and perseverance.</p>
			<p>In the meantime, their barking had awaked the younger boys, and they all ran out of the tent, curious to know what could be the occasion. Jack was the first who appeared, with the young monkey on his shoulders; but when the little creature perceived the jackall, he sprang away in terror, and hid himself at the furthest extremity of the grass which composed our bed; with which he covered himself so completely, that scarcely could the tip of his nose be seen.</p>
			<p>The children were much surprised at the sight of a yellow-coloured animal standing without motion at the entrance of the tent. O heavens! exclaimed Francis, and stepping back a few paces for fear; it is a wolf! No, no, said Jack, going near the jackall and taking one of his paws; it is a yellow dog, and he is dead; he does not move at all. It is neither a dog nor a wolf, interrupted Ernest in a consequential tone; do you not see that it is a <i>golden</i> fox? Best of all, most learned professor! now exclaimed Fritz. So you can tell an agouti, when you see him, but you cannot tell a jackall; for jackall is the creature you see before you, and I killed him myself in the night!</p>
			<p><i>Ernest.</i>⁠—In the night, you say, Fritz! In your sleep, I suppose..⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p><i>Fritz.</i>⁠—No, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ernest; not in my sleep, as you so good-naturedly suppose, but broad awake, and on the watch to protect you from wild beasts! But I cannot wonder at this mistake in one who does not know the difference between a jackall and a <i>golden</i> fox!</p>
			<p><i>Ernest.</i>⁠—You would not have known it either, if papa had not told you..⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>Come, come, my lads, I will have no disputes, said I. Fritz, you are to blame in ridiculing your brother for the mistake he made. Ernest, you are also to blame for indulging that little peevishness of yours. But as to the animal, you all are right and all are wrong; for he partakes at once of the nature of the dog, the wolf, and the fox; and for his skin, it is really of a golden tint! The boys in an instant became friends; and then followed questions, answers, and wonder in abundance.</p>
			<p>And now, my boys, let me remind you, that he who begins the day without first addressing the Almighty, ought to expect neither success nor safety in his undertakings. Let us therefore acquit ourselves of this duty before we engage in any other occupation. Having finished our prayers, the next thing thought of was breakfast; for the appetites of young boys open with their eyes. Today their mother had nothing to give them for their morning meal but some biscuit, which was so hard and dry, that it was with difficulty we could swallow it. Fritz asked for a piece of cheese to eat with it, and Ernest spied about the second cask we had drawn out of the sea, and which was standing in our kitchen, to discover whether, as we had all imagined, it also contained some Dutch cheeses. In a minute or two he came up to us, joy sparkling in his eyes. Papa, said he, if we had but a little butter spread upon our biscuit, do you not think it would improve it?</p>
			<p>That indeed it would; but⁠—<i>if</i>⁠—<i>if</i>; these never-ending <i>ifs</i> are but a poor dependence. For my part, I had rather eat a bit of cheese with my biscuit at once, than think of <i>ifs</i>, which bring us so meagre a harvest.</p>
			<p><i>Ernest.</i>⁠—Perhaps though, the <i>ifs</i> may be found to be worth something, if we were to knock out the head of this cask.</p>
			<p><i>Father.</i>⁠—What cask, my boy? and what are you talking of?</p>
			<p><i>Ernest.</i>⁠—I am talking of this cask, which is filled with excellent salt butter. I made a little opening in it with a knife; and see, I got out enough of it to spread nicely upon this piece of biscuit.</p>
			<p>That glutton instinct of yours for once is of some general use, answered I; and justice requires that I should also commend, with moderation, the excellence of your nose. But now let us profit by the event. Who will have some butter on their biscuits? The boys surrounded the cask in a moment, while I was in some perplexity as to the safest and most speedy method of getting out its contents. Fritz proposed taking off the topmost hoop, by which means one of the ends could be got out. But this I objected to, observing, that we should be careful not to loosen the staves, as the great heat of the sun would not fail to melt the butter, which would run out, and thus be wasted. The idea occurred to me, that I would make a hole in the bottom of the cask, sufficiently large to take out a small quantity of butter at a time; and I immediately set about manufacturing a little wooden shovel, to use it for the purpose. All this succeeded vastly well, and we sat down to breakfast, some biscuits and a coconut shell full of salt butter being placed upon the ground, round which we all assembled, and none of us failing from time to time to wish for a fairy’s wand, to have enabled us to add a little milk from the cow, or from some coconuts, to quench our thirst. We however toasted our biscuit, and while it was hot applied the butter, and contrived, without the fairy’s wand, to make a hearty breakfast.</p>
			<p>Our dogs allowed us to finish our meal in tranquillity. They were sleeping by our side; but I did not fail to remark, that their late encounter with the jackalls had not concluded without their receiving several wounds, which I now, for the first time, observed in various parts of their body, and principally round their necks. Fearing that the heat might bring on inflammation, I desired Jack, the valiant, to wash a small quantity of the butter thoroughly in fresh water, and then to anoint the wounds with it while they continued sleeping. This he effected with much skill and tenderness. The dogs awoke, but did not attempt the least resistance, seeming to be sensible of the benefit he was conferring on them; they themselves assisted the cure, by frequently licking the parts; so that in a few days they were as well as before.</p>
			<p>One of the things we must not forget to look for in the vessel, said Fritz, is a spiked collar or two for our dogs, as a protection to them, should they again be called upon to defend themselves from wild beasts, which I fear it is too probable will be the case.</p>
			<p>Oh! says Jack, I can make some spiked collars, if mamma will give me a little help.</p>
			<p>That I will most readily, my boy; for I should like to see what new fancy has come into your head, cried mamma.</p>
			<p>Yes, yes, pursued I, as many new inventions as you please; you cannot better employ your time; and if you produce something useful, you will be rewarded with the honour of our commendations. But now we must think of setting ourselves to some occupation. You, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fritz, who, from your superior age and discretion, enjoy the high honour of being my privy counsellor, must make haste and get yourself ready, and we will undertake today our voyage to the vessel, to save and bring away whatever may be possible. You younger boys will remain here, under the wing of your kind mother; I hope I need not mention that I rely on your perfect obedience to her will, and general good behaviour.</p>
			<p>While Fritz was getting the boat ready, I looked about for a pole, and put a piece of white linen to the end of it; this I drove into the ground, in a place where it would be visible from the vessel; and I concerted with my wife, that in case of any accident that should require my immediate presence, they should take down the pole and fire a gun three times as a signal of distress, in consequence of which I would immediately return. But I gave her notice, that there being so many things to accomplish on board the vessel, it was very probable that we should not be able to return the same day; in which case I, on my part, also promised to make them signals. My wife had the courage and the good sense to consent to my plan. Though she was well aware that it could not but be dangerous to pass a night alone with the children, without my protection, she yet preferred the risk, to that of my returning late from the vessel. She, however, extorted from me a promise that we should pass the night in our tubs, and not on board the ship. We took nothing with us but our guns and a recruit of powder and shot, relying that we should find plenty of provisions on board; yet I did not refuse to indulge Fritz in the wish he expressed to let him take the young monkey, he feeling the most eager impatience to see how the young creature would like some milk from the cow or from a goat.</p>
			<p>We embarked in silence, casting our anxious looks on the beloved objects we were quitting. Fritz rowed steadily, and I did my best to second his endeavours, by rowing from time to time, on my part, with the oar which served me for a rudder. When we had reached to a considerable distance, I remarked, that beside the opening by which we had the first time made land, there was another that formed the mouth of the river, running not far from that spot, and the current of which was visible a good way into the sea.</p>
			<p>To take advantage of this current, and to husband our strength by means of it, was my first thought and my first care. Little as I knew of the management of sea affairs, I however succeeded in keeping our boat in the direction in which it ran, by which means we were drawn gently on, till it had conducted us to within a short distance of the vessel, without our having any other trouble than that of keeping in the same line: at length, in consequence of the gradual diminution of its force, we were again obliged to have recourse to our oars; but our arms having now rested for some time, we were ready for new exertions. A little afterwards we found ourselves safely arrived at the cleft of the vessel, and fastened our boat securely to one of its timbers.</p>
			<p>Scarcely had we got out of the boat than Fritz proceeded with his young monkey on his arm to the main deck, where he found all the animals we had left on board assembled. I followed him with great readiness, well pleased to observe the generous impatience he betrayed, to relieve the wants of the poor abandoned creatures, who, one and all, now saluted us by the cry or the sounds natural to its species! It was not so much the want of food, as the desire of seeing once more their accustomed human companions, which occasioned them to manifest their joy in this manner, for they had a portion of the food and water we had left them, still remaining. The first thing we did was to put the young monkey to one of the goats, that he might suck; and this he did with such evident pleasure, and such odd grimaces, that he afforded us much amusement.⁠—We next examined the food and water of the other animals, taking away what was half spoiled, and adding a fresh supply, that no anxiety on their account might afterwards interrupt our enterprise. Nor did we neglect the care of renewing our own strength by a plentiful repast.</p>
			<p>While we were seated, and appeasing the calls of hunger, Fritz and I consulted what should be our first occupation; when, to my great surprise, the advice he gave was, that we should immediately contrive a sail for our boat. In the name of Heaven, cried I, what makes you think of such a thing at so critical a moment, and when we have so many other things of indispensable necessity to arrange? We will think of a sail when we have leisure, with all my heart, for it is an affair which will take a considerable time to accomplish. In reality, I experienced great uneasiness at the thought of passing the night at a distance from my family.</p>
			<p>All you say is very true, father, said Fritz; but let me confess the truth, which is, that I found it very difficult to perform the task of rowing for so long a time, though I assure you I did my best, and did not spare my strength. I observed that, though the wind blew strong in my face, the current nevertheless carried us on. Now, as we cannot be benefited on our return by the current, I was thinking that we might make the wind supply its place. Our boat will be very heavy when we have loaded it with all the useful things we mean to take away, and I am afraid I shall not be strong enough to row to land. Now do you not think that a sail would be of great assistance?</p>
			<p>Ah ha, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fritz! So you wish to spare yourself a little trouble, do you? But to speak seriously, I perceive a great deal of good sense in your argument, and think myself much obliged to my privy counsellor for his good advice. The best thing we can do is, to take care and not overload the boat, and thus avoid the danger of sinking, or of being obliged to throw some of our stores overboard. Come then, let us set to work upon your sail, which, if it saves your labour in rowing, will be at least a little troublesome at present. Come along, and let us look about for what we want.</p>
			<p>I assisted Fritz to carry a pole strong enough to serve for a mast, and another not so thick for a sail-yard. I directed him to make a hole in a plank with a chisel, large enough for the mast to stand upright in it.</p>
			<p>I then went to the sail-chamber, and cut off from an ample piece of sailcloth enough to make a triangular sail: in the edges I made holes, and passed cords through them. I then sought for a pulley, that I might fasten it to the top of the mast, and thus be enabled to raise and lower my sail at pleasure. Thus prepared, I hastened to join Fritz, who was earnestly working at the mast. As soon as he had done, we placed the plank that he had perforated, upon the fourth of our tubs, and made it fast. The pulley was suspended from a ring at the top of the mast, and the cord, attached to the sharpest angle of the sail, was passed through it. The sail formed a right-angle triangle, one side of which touched the mast, and was fastened to it. The shortest side was also fastened with cords to a pole, stretching from the mast beyond the circumference of our bark, and of which one end was fastened to the mast, and the other, by means of a cord, to the helm, in such a manner that I could, from my position, either weather the sail, or let it go altogether. In the foremost and hindmost bench of our little bark, we made holes with a piercer, and passed cords through them, by means of which we could pass the sail from the right to the left side of us, and back again, without being obliged to turn the boat entirely round.</p>
			<p>While I was thus occupied, Fritz had been taking observations through a telescope of what was passing on land, and which we had already done several times. He imparted the agreeable tidings that all was still well with our dear family. He had distinguished his mother walking tranquilly along the shore. He soon after brought me a small streamer, which he had cut from a piece of linen, and which he entreated me to tie to the extremity of the mast, and he appeared as much delighted with the streamer as with the sail itself. He gave to our machine the name of <i>The Deliverance</i>; and in speaking of it, instead of calling it a <i>boat</i>, it was now always denominated <i>the little vessel</i>. I could not withhold a smile at vanity like this, in such a situation as ours; it gave me too an opportunity of observing the operation of this prominent feature of human nature, in a lad of fourteen years of age. I myself took great pleasure in seeing the little streamer floating in the air, and in the respectable appearance of our machine altogether.</p>
			<p>But now, father, said Fritz, looking kindly on me as he spoke, as you have eased me of the labour of rowing, it is my turn to take care of you. I am thinking about making you a better-contrived rudder; one that would enable you to steer the boat both with greater ease and greater safety. Your thought would be a very good one, said I, but that I am unwilling to lose the advantage of being able to proceed this way and that, without being obliged to veer. I shall therefore fix our oars in such a manner as to enable me to steer the raft from either end. Accordingly, I fixed bits of wood to the stem and stern of the vessel, in the nature of grooves, which were calculated to spare us a great deal of trouble.</p>
			<p>During these exertions the day became far advanced, and I perceived that we should be obliged to pass the night in our tubs, not having as yet entered upon our task of emptying the vessel. We had promised our family to hoist a flag as a signal of our intention to pass the night from home, and we decided that our streamer was precisely the thing we wanted for this purpose.</p>
			<p>We employed the rest of the day in emptying the tubs of the useless ballast of stone, and putting in their place what would be of service, such as nails, pieces of cloth, and different kinds of utensils, <abbr>etc.</abbr> <abbr>etc.</abbr> The Vandals themselves could not have made a more complete pillage than we had done. The prospect we seemed to have of an entire solitude, made us devote our principal attention to the securing as much powder and shot as might fall in our way, that we might thus secure the means of catching animals for food, and of defending ourselves against wild beasts to the latest moment possible. Utensils also for every kind of workmanship, of which there was a large provision in the ship, were also objects of incalculable value to us. The vessel, which was now a wreck, had been sent out as a preparation for the establishment of a colony in the South Seas, and for that reason had been provided with a variety of stores not commonly included in the loading of a ship. Among the rest, care had been taken to have on board considerable numbers of European cattle; but so long a voyage had proved unfavourable to the oxen and the horses, the greatest part of which had died, and the others were in so bad a condition that it had been found necessary to destroy them. The quantity of useful things which presented themselves in the store-chambers, made it difficult for me to select among them, and I much regretted that circumstances compelled me to leave some of them behind. Fritz, however, already meditated a second visit; but we took good care not to lose the present occasion for securing knives and forks and spoons, and a complete assortment of kitchen utensils. In the captain’s cabin we found some services of silver, dishes and plates of high-wrought metal, and a little chest filled with bottles of all sorts of excellent wine. Each of these articles we put into our boat. We next descended to the kitchen, which we stripped of gridirons, kettles, pots of all kinds, a small roasting-jack, <abbr>etc.</abbr> Our last prize was a chest of choice eatables, intended for the table of the officers, containing Westphalia hams, Bologna sausages, and other savoury food. I took good care not to forget some little sacks of maize, of wheat, and other grain, and some potatoes. We next added such implements for husbandry as we could find;⁠—shovels, hoes, spades, rakes, harrows, <abbr>etc.</abbr> <abbr>etc.</abbr> Fritz reminded me that we had found sleeping on the ground both cold and hard, and prevailed upon me to increase our cargo by some hammocks, and a certain number of blankets: and as guns had hitherto been the source of his pleasures, he added such as he could find of a particular costliness or structure, together with some sabres and clasp knives. The last articles we took, were a barrel of sulphur, a quantity of ropes, some small string, and a large roll of sailcloth. The vessel appeared to us to be in so wretched a condition, that the coming on of the least tempest must make her go to pieces.</p>
			<p>It was then quite uncertain whether we should be able to approach her any more.</p>
			<p>Our cargo was so considerable, that the tubs were filled to the very brim, and no inch of the boat’s room was lost. The first and last of the tubs were reserved for Fritz and me to seat ourselves in and row the boat, which sunk so low in the water, that, if the sea had been otherwise than quite calm, we should have been obliged to ease her of some of the loading: we, however, used the precaution of putting on our swimming-jackets, for fear of any misfortune.</p>
			<p>It will easily be imagined that every moment of the day had been laboriously employed. Night suddenly surprised us, and it was no longer possible to form a hope of returning to our family the same evening. A large blazing fire on the shore soon after greeted our sight⁠—the signal we had agreed upon for assuring us that all was well, and to bid us close our eyes in peace. We returned the compliment by tying four lanterns with lights in them to our masthead. This was answered on their part, according to agreement, by the firing of two guns; so that both parties had reason to be satisfied and easy.</p>
			<p>After offering up our earnest prayers for the safety and happiness of all, yet not without some apprehension for the night, we resigned ourselves to sleep in our tubs, which, it must be confessed, did not afford us a very enviable place of rest: they were, however, safer than the vessel, and more convenient for guarding our heavily loaded machine. At the least cracking of the vessel, we might cut the rope in an instant, and get out to sea. Our night, thank God, passed tranquilly enough: my boy Fritz slept as soundly as if he had been in a bed; while I, notwithstanding my fatigue, could neither close my eyes, nor keep them from the direction of the shore, perpetually haunted by the recollection of the nocturnal visit of the jackalls, some of whose race I feared might come and enter the tent. I had, however, great reliance that my valiant dogs would do their duty, and was thankful to Heaven for having enabled us to preserve so good a protection.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
